To be architecture, a building must achieve a working harmony with a variety of elements.
In order for the structure to achieve the size and strength necessary to meet its purpose, architecture employs methods of support that, because they are based on physical laws, have changed little since people first discovered them  even while building materials have changed dramatically.
In speculative philosophy and the sciences, the Romans made virtually no advance on early achievements. 
Teotihuac  n may have achieved some religious significance and its shrine (or shrines) may have served as an additional population magnet.
The effect is altogether lighter and freer than that achieved in stone, but because both perform the same function, formal wooden and metal statues still display frontality.
Through association with people who are meaningful to us, we achieve a sense of security, love, acceptance, companionship, and personal worth.
Instrumental ties are social links formed when we cooperate with other people to achieve some goal.
It is a monumental scientific achievement, and its development illustrates the essential interplay between observation, prediction, and testing required for scientific progress.
This may require moving to different parts of the forest at different times of the day or under different weather conditions, or it may be achieved by changing color according to the changing light conditions.
This was finally achieved by Louis Daguerre (1787-1851), who perfected a way of fixing them on a silvered copper plate.
Protected embryos and waterless k dispersal of sex cells were achieved with the origin of seed plans and the key evolutionary innovations that they introduced: pollen, seeds, and later, flowers and fruits.
The clock was the greatest achievement of medieval mechanical ingenuity.
This growth was achieve as the result of the collective decisions of thousands of peasants families to expand the amount of land they cultivated, clear and plant new land, or adopt more intensive methods of agriculture.
Without experimentation and objective, critical testing of their theories, the best these thinkers could hope to achieve was some internally consistent speculation that covered all the bases and satisfied the demands of reason. 
A successful translocation exercise also appears to have been achieved with red howler monkeys in French Guiana.
(They could melt at 2700 Fahrenheit, whereas major fires achieve temperatures of 3000degrees).
Darwin s theory was that the succession from one coral reef type to another could be achieved by the upward growth of coral from a sinking platform, and that there would be a progression from a fringing reef, through the barrier reef stage until, with the disappearance through subsidence (sinking) of the central island, only a reef-enclosed lagoon or atoll would survive.
