In addition to exploring the possible antecedents of theater, scholars have also theorized about the motives that led people to develop theater.
Therefore, additional explanations are needed.
In an area where low temperatures are limiting to life, the importance of the additional heat near the surface is crucial.
It has been estimated that an additional one-fourth of the Earth's land surface is threatened by this process. 
Estimates indicate that the aquifer contains enough water to fill Lake Huron, but unfortunately, under the semiarid climatic conditions that presently exist in the region, rates of addition to the aquifer are minimal, amounting to about half a centimeter a year.
In addition, 40 percent of American grain-fed beef cattle are fattened here.
In addition to finding an increase of suitable browse, like huckleberry and vine maple, Arthur Einarsen, longtime game biologist in the Pacific Northwest, found quality of browse in the open areas to be substantially more nutritive.
In addition, the paintings mostly portray animals that the painters may have feared the most because of their size, speed, natural weapons such as tusks and horns, and the unpredictability of their behavior.
In addition to other artworks, figurines representing the human female in exaggerated form have also been found at Upper Paleolithic sites.
Such success may have attracted immigrants to Teotihuac  n. In addition, Teotihuac  n  s elite may have consciously attempted to attract new inhabitants.
Teotihuac  n may have achieved some religious significance and its shrine (or shrines) may have served as an additional population magnet.
The thriving obsidian operation, for example, would necessitate more miners, additional manufacturers of obsidian tools, and additional traders to carry the goods to new markets.
All this led to increased wealth, which in turn would attract more immigrants to Teotihuac  n. The growing power of the elite, who controlled the economy, would give them the means to physically coerce people to move to Teotihuac  n and serve as additions to the labor force.
Fladmark  s hypothesis received additional support form from the fact that the greatest diversity in native American languages occurs along the west coast of the Americas, suggesting that this region has been settled the longest. 
In the angiosperm the seeds are wrapped in an additional layer of covering.
In addition, there was an important group of sculptures made for religious use, the majority of which were produced in earthenware.
In addition to the internal variability of the global climate system itself, there is the added factor of external influences, such as volcanoes and solar activity.
Populations cannot grow unless the rural economy can produce enough additional food to feed more people.
Two additional techniques of studying infant perception have come into vogue.
In addition, children feel validated in their choice of a product when a celebrity endorses that product.
With additional time, pressure, and refrozen meltwater from above, the small firn granules become larger, interlocked crystals of blue glacial ice.
It had a wider and deeper hull than the galley and hence could carry more cargo: increased stability made it possible to add multiple masts and sails.
In the first case, the plants provide the bacteria with carbohydrates and other organic compounds, and the bacteria have enzymes that act as catalysts that eventually add nitrogen to the soil, enriching it.
The reverse process brought young men to Britain, where many continued to live after their 20 to 25 years of service, and this added to the cosmopolitan Roman character of the frontier population.
In addition, there were other immigrants who migrated west in search of new homes, material success, and better lives.
This addition of a chemically precipitated substance into pore spaces is termed "permineralization."
In addition, water heated geothermally can contain salts and toxic materials dissolved from the hot rock.
The peasants specialized in livestock husbandry and dairy farming as well as in cultivating industrial crops and fodder crops: flax, madder, and rape were grown, as were tobacco, hops, and turnips.
In addition to dairy farming and cultivating industrial crops, a third sector of the Dutch economy reflected the way in which agriculture was being modernized-horticulture.
Over the past four decades new discoveries have steadily added to the body of knowledge.
In addition, breathing during REM depends much more on the action of the diaphragm and much less on rib cage action.
In addition, other lines of evidence support the hypothesis that land plants evolved from ancestral green algae used the same type of chlorophyll and accessory pigments in photosynthesis as do land plants.
When food was added to these plots (no food effect) and predators were excluded (no predator effect) from an experimental area, hare numbers increased tenfold and stayed there  the cycle was lost.
However, the cycle was retained if either of the factors was allowed to operate alone: if predators were excluded but food was not added (food effect alone), or if food was added in the presence of predators (predator effect alone).
The same effects of inbreeding may have occurred in controlled cattle populations, with some additional, and perhaps unrecognized, advantages.
Because both sexes of whitetails respond to buck rubs by smelling and licking them, rubs may serve a very important additional function.
The result was the extermination of a large fraction of the South American mammals, which were apparently unable to withstand the competition from invading North American species  although added predation was also an important factor.
In addition, barriers can rapidly arise and shut off the trickle.
In addition, results from other types of preschool readiness programs indicate that those who participate and graduate are less likely to repeat grades, and they are more likely to complete school than readiness program, for every dollar spent on the program, taxpayers saved seven dollars by the time the graduates reached the age of 27. 
An additional benefit was that the sediment carried by the river waters deposited nutrients in the soil, thus enabling the farmer to cultivate a single plot of ground for many years without moving to a new location.
After a series of observations, Watt saw that the Newcomen  s waste of energy could be reduced by adding a separate condenser.
In addition to the marked changes in abundance observed in phytoplankton over the course of a year, there is also a marked change in species composition.
In addition, trees can extend their roots deep within the soil and bring up nutrients from far below the surface.
In addition, earthworms mix of soil both vertically and horizontally, improving aeration and drainage. 
In addition, mammals such as moles, field mice, gophers, and prairie dogs sometimes are present in sufficient numbers to have significant impact on the soil.
More recent data, however, provide additional support for Kettleweir  s ideas about natural selection.
This may be either to establish a new population where a population of conspecifics ( animals or plants belonging to the same species) has become extinct or to add individuals to an existing population.
In addition, when glyphosate is used to control weeds, other, more persistent herbicides do not need to be applied.
When a fire finally does start in a sapling-choked forest, whether due to lightning or human carelessness or (regrettably often) intentional arson, the dense, tall saplings young trees) may become a ladder that allows the fire to jump into the crowns of the trees.
The Peisistratids, as the succession of tyrants were called (after the founder of the dynasty, Peisistratos), strengthened Athenian central administration at the expense of the aristocracy by appointing judges throughout the region, producing Athens' first national coinage, and adding and embellishing festivals that tended to focus attention on Athens rather than on local villages of the surrounding region.
Although the temperature would have climbed above 100   C, the boiling point of water at sea level on Earth, the added atmospheric pressure from water vapor would have kept the water in Venus' oceans in the liquid state.
But as the Sun  s energy output slowly increased over time, the temperature at the surface would eventually have risen above 374  C. Above this temperature, no matter what the atmospheric pressure, Venus   oceans would have begun to evaporate, and the added water vapor in the atmosphere would have increased the greenhouse effect.
On land, there was also a crisis among the land plants, in addition to the disappearance of dinosaurs.
In addition, the Galileo spacecraft discovered that Ganymede has a magnetic field, the signature of a partially molten interior.
Two additional kinds of evidence support the hypothesis that petroleum is a product of the decomposition of organic matter: oil possesses optical properties known only in hydrocarbons derived from organic matter, and oil contains nitrogen and certain compounds believed to originate only in living matter.
A complex sequence of chemical reactions is involved in converting the original solid organic matter to oil and gas, and additional chemical changes may occur in the oil and gas even after they have formed.
A lot of additional oil has been located by drilling but is still waiting to be pumped out Possibly a great deal more oil remains to be found by drilling.
In addition, plants had emerged into terrestrial habitats in areas near streams and ponds, and crabs and other arthropods were also members of this earliest terrestrial community.
In 1558 Giovanni Battista Della Porta wrote in his twenty-volume work Magia naturalis (meaning "natural magic") instructions for adding a convex lens to improve the quality of the image thrown against a canvas or panel in the darkened area where its outlines could be traced.
These developments added up to what one modern scholar has called "a commercial revolution."
However, in addition to corals there are enormous quantities of algae, some calcareous, which help to build the reefs.
In addition, the juveniles inside the body cavity were of different sizes.
Moreover, the added nuclei increase the frequency of city fog.
To this in late Roman times was added parchment, similarly made from the smoothed skin of sheep or goats.
