Timberline trees are normally evergreens, suggesting that these have some advantage over deciduous trees (those that lose their leaves) in the extreme environments of the upper timberline.
The low growth form can also permit the plants to take advantage of the insulation provided by a winter snow cover.
Only the last of these was suited at all to the continuous operating of machines, and although waterpower abounded in Lancashire and Scotland and ran grain mills as well as textile mills, it had one great disadvantage: streams flowed where nature intended them to, and water-driven factories had to be located on their banks whether or not the location was desirable for other reasons.
Woolens and textile manufacturers, in particular, utilized rural cottage (in-home) production, which took advantage of cheap and plentiful rural labor.
By doing so, they could possibly secure more food, which should result in more rapid growth or larger size, either of which is advantageous.
Young children are trusting of commercial advertisements in the media, and advertisers have sometimes been accused of taking advantage of this trusting outlook.
Peripheral peoples therefore had a great advantage in their dealings with the center, making government authority insecure and anxious.
Considering human capital as a characteristic of the population, however, all four countries were advantaged by the large percentages of their populations who could read and write.
Each took advantage of these opportunities in its own way.
Changing from hunting and gathering to agriculture had no immediate advantages.
Another adaptive advantage is Spartina  s ability to use carbon dioxide more efficiently than most other plants.
Given all the disadvantages of living in aggregated towns, why did people in the thirteenth century move into these closely packed quarters?
Greater productivity and rising demands provided entrepreneurs with profits that could be reinvested to take advantage of new technologies to further expand capacity, or to seek alternative investment opportunities.
The same effects of inbreeding may have occurred in controlled cattle populations, with some additional, and perhaps unrecognized, advantages.
This would be an obvious advantage to wide-ranging deer, especially to a socially dominant buck when courting several adult females during the autumn rut.
The advantage was that crops grown in such areas were not as dependent on rainfall and therefore produced a more reliable harvest.
Writing in ink on paper, unlike parchment, could not easily be erased, and therefore paper had the advantage that it was difficult to alter what was written on it.
In an attempt to overcome these disadvantages, Thomas Savery in 1698 and Tomas Newcomen in 1705 invented the first primitive steam engines.
The number of translocations carried out under the banner of conservation has increased rapidly, and this has led to criticism of the technique because of the lack of evaluation of its efficacy and because of its potential disadvantages.
If there were periods of drought, any adaptations allowing the fish to survive the dry conditions would have been advantageous.
The advantage of teeth and claws as predatory tools is obvious.
The jaw joint of carnivores such as dogs and cats has the mechanical advantage of being at the same level as the tooth row, allowing the jaws to close with tremendous speed and forcing the upper teeth to occlude against the lower teeth with great precision.
German printers had the disadvantage of working with the complex typeface that the Italians sneeringly referred to as "Gothic" and that later became known as black letter.
The breakthrough came in Great Britain, where several economic advantages created a climate especially favorable to the encouraged of new technology.
Another advantage was Britain  s large population of rural, agricultural wage earners.
In the sixteenth century enclosures were usually used for creating sheep pastures, but by the eighteenth century new farming techniques made it advantageous for large landowners to seek enclosures in order to improve agricultural production.
