The extreme seriousness of desertification results from the vast areas of land and the tremendous numbers of people affected, as well as from the great difficulty of reversing or even slowing the process.
Of all the visual arts, architecture affects our lives most directly for it determines the character of the human environment in major ways.
Typically, older leaves are affected first as the phosphorus is mobilized to young growing tissue.
Around this time, the largest of these centers, Cuicuilco, was seriously affected by a volcanic eruption, with much of its agricultural land covered by lava.
It  s hard to understand why they would not be affected, whereas dinosaurs were left too crippled to cope, especially if, as some scientists believe, dinosaurs were warm-blooded.
An individual's success in propagating his or her genes can be affected by more than just his or her own personal reproductive success.
Indeed, stability of the biological clock's period is one of its major features, even when the organism's environment is subjected to considerable changes in factors, such as temperature, that would be expected to affect biological activity strongly.
A study of children in Hong Kong, however, found that the presence of celebrities in advertisements could negatively affect the children's perceptions of a product if the children did not like the celebrity in question.
In 1950, myxoma virus, a parasite that affects rabbits, was deliberately introduced into Australia to control the rabbit population.
In contrast to parasitism, in commensalism, one partner benefits without significantly affecting the other.
Few cases of absolute commensalism probably exist, because it is unlikely that one of the partners will be completely unaffected.
It is difficult to imagine how this could affect the cattle, but the relationship may help or hinder them in some way not yet recognized.
Areas rapidly incorporated into the empire were not long affected by the military.
The imposition of military rule also robbed local leaders of opportunities to participate in local government, so social development was stunted and the seeds of disaffection sown.
The spruce community is not substantially affected by either the presence or absence of moose.
By the early part of the twentieth century, scientists believed that four distinct glaciations had affected North America and Europe during the Pleistocene epoch. 
Many aspects of this energy use affect the atmosphere of a city, particularly in the production of heat. 
For one thing, the presence or absence of moisture is affected by the special qualities of the urban surface.
Dutch agriculture was finally affected by the general agricultural crisis in Europe during the last two decades of the seventeenth century.
However, what is astonishing about this is not that Dutch agriculture was affected by critical phenomena such as a decrease in sales and production, but the fact that the crisis appeared only relatively late in Dutch agriculture.
Dutch peasants were able to remain unaffected by this crisis for a long time because they had specialized in dairy farming industrial crops, and horticulture.
is dramatically affecting the residence times of some lakes in northwestern Ontario, Canada.
However, there are many other changes that affect respiration when asleep.
The environmental changes associated with this transition are not fully understood, but people living closest to the San Juan Mountains, to the northeast of Mesa Verde, were affected first.
In a bad year for farming, everyone was equally affected.
This decline can be seen clearly in the changes that affected Venetian shipping and trade.
How do predetors affect populations of the prey animals?
Thus, both factors can affect the cycle, which, in practice, seems to be generated by the conjunction of the two factors.
Because the surface of the water table is not flat but instead rises and falls with topography, groundwater is affected by gravity in the same fashion as surface water.
Other studies have shown that greater stimulation not only affects the size of the brain but also increases the number of connections between the nerve cells.
Though Hubbell and Johnson were interested in how bee behavior might affect colony distributions, they recognized that the availability of potential nest sites for colonies could also affect distributions.
Nevertheless, climatic explanations for the K-T extinction are not really challenged by the ideas that dinosaurs may have been endothermic, because even endotherms can be affected by a significant change in the climate.
Caterpillars and seed beetles affect seed production directly.
It even affects the climate on a very local level (the "microclimate') by influencing light intensity, humidity, and both the range and extremes of temperature.
As relative newcomers to the Southwest, a place where their climate, neighbors, and rulers could be equally inhospitable, the Navajo created these art forms to affect the world around them, not just through the recounting of the actions symbolized, but through the beauty and harmony of the artworks themselves.
Many ever-changing variables affected ancient trade, among them the demand for goods.
During the past 60 years, at least ten El Nifios have been observed Not only do El Niftos affect the temperature of the equatorial Pacific, but the strongest of them impact global weather.
Depending on the location, time of year, and time of day, any or all of the following differences between cities and their surroundings can be important: albedo (reflectivity of the surface), surface roughness, emissions of heat, emissions of moisture, and emissions of particles that affect net radiation and the growth of cloud droplets.
Over time, increasing urban heat islands affect climatological temperature records, producing artificial warming in climatic records taken in cities.
Pollutants from urban areas may even affect the weather downwind from them.
Falls in sea level often exposed a number of important land bridges, such as those linking Alaska to northeast Asia and Britain to northwest Europe, a phenomenon with far reaching effects not only on human colonization of the globe but also on the environment as a whole-the flora and fauna of isolated or insular areas were radically and often irreversibly affected.
Isostatic uplift of the land occurs when the weight of ice is removed as temperatures rise, as at the end of an ice age; it has affected coastlines, for example, in Scandinavia, Scotland, Alaska, and Newfoundland during the postglacial period.
