Dutch land reclamation in the Netherlands in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries provides the most spectacular example of the expansion of farmland: the Dutch reclaimed more than 36.000 acres from 1590 to 1615 alone.
At mid-century, an Antwerp financier only slightly exaggerated when he claimed,   0ne can no more trade without bills of exchange than sail without water."
Claims such as "the best" or "better than" can be subjective and misleading; even adults may be unsure as to their meaning.
Advertisers sometimes offset or counterbalance an exaggerated claim with a disclaimer  a qualification or condition on the claim.
For example, the claim that breakfast cereal has a health benefit may be accompanied by the disclaimer "when part of a nutritionally balanced breakfast."
However, research has shown that children often have difficulty understanding disclaimers: children may interpret the phrase "when part of a nutritionally balanced breakfast" to mean that the cereal is required as a necessary part of a balanced breakfast.
The author George Comstock suggested that less than a quarter of children between the ages of six and eight years old understood standard disclaimers used in many toy advertisements and that disclaimers are more readily comprehended when presented in both audio and visual formats.
Nevertheless, disclaimers are mainly presented in audio format only.
Child-oriented advertisements are more likely to include magic and fantasy than advertisements aimed at adults.
Certainly, rational appeals in advertising aimed at children are limited, as most advertisements use emotional and indirect appeals to psychological states or associations.
As the demand for agricultural produce from both consumers and industry increased, agricultural land became more valuable and people tried to work the available land more intensively and to reclaim more land from wetlands and lakes.
The increased yield and price of land justified reclaiming and draining even more land.
The richest merchants in Amsterdam contributed money to reclaim a good 7,100 hectares of land.
Land reclamation continued, and between 1590 and 1665, almost 100,000 hectares were reclaimed from the wetland areas of Holland, Zeeland, and Friesland.
Specimens are cut into extremely thin sections, and the transmission electron microscope aims an electron beam through a section, just as a light microscope aims a beam of light through a specimen.
In recent times the British artist David Hockney has published his investigations into the secret use of the camera obscura, claiming that for up to 400 years, many of Western art  s great masters probably used the device to produce almost photographically realistic details in their paintings.
It is usually claimed that species-rich ecosystems tend to be more stable than species-poor ecosystems.
Printing aimed at a cheap mass sale.
