Groundwater is the word used to describe water that saturates the ground, filling all the available spaces.
At first thought it seems incredible that there can be enough space in the   solid   ground underfoot to hold all this water. 
The same thing happens to this day, though on a smaller scale, wherever a sediment-laden river or stream emerges from a mountain valley onto relatively flat land, dropping its load as the current slows: the water usually spreads out fanwise, depositing the sediment in the form of a smooth, fan-shaped slope.
Sediments are also dropped where a river slows on entering a lake or the sea, the deposited sediments are on a lake floor or the seafloor at first, but will be located inland at some future date, when the sea level falls or the land rises; such beds are sometimes thousands of meters thick.
This is because the gaps among the original grains are often not totally plugged with cementing chemicals; also, parts of the original grains may become dissolved by percolating groundwater, either while consolidation is taking place or at any time afterwards.
Most crystalline rocks are much more solid; a common exception is basalt, a form of solidified volcanic lava, which is sometimes full of tiny bubbles that make it very porous.
But some will remain, clinging to all solid surfaces.
It is held there by the force of surface tension without which water would drain instantly from any wet surface, leaving it totally dry.
If the pores are large, the water in them will exist as drops too heavy for surface tension to hold, and it will drain away; but if the pores are small enough, the water in them will exist as thin films, too light to overcome the force of surface tension holding them in place; then the water will be firmly held. 
When this occurs, the first step has been taken toward theater as an autonomous activity, and thereafter entertainment and aesthetic values may gradually replace the former mystical and socially efficacious concerns. 
Thus, the recalling of an event (a hunt, battle, or other feat) is elaborated through the narrator  s pantomime and impersonation and eventually through each role being assumed by a different person.
Most answers fall back on the theories about the human mind and basic human needs.
One, set forth by Aristotle in the fourth century B.C., sees humans as naturally imitative  as taking pleasure in imitating persons, things, and actions and in seeing such imitations.
This rapid zone of transition is called the upper timberline or tree line.
In many semiarid areas there is also a lower timberline where the forest passes into steppe or desert at its lower edge, usually because of a lack of moisture.
Timberline trees are normally evergreens, suggesting that these have some advantage over deciduous trees (those that lose their leaves) in the extreme environments of the upper timberline.
This is particularly true for trees in the middle and upper latitudes, which tend to attain greater heights on ridges, whereas in the tropics the trees reach their greater heights in the valleys.
As the snow is deeper and lasts longer in the valleys, trees tend to attain greater heights on the ridges, even though they are more exposed to high-velocity winds and poor, thin soils there.
In the tropics, the valleys appear to be more favorable because they are less prone to dry out, they have less frost, and they have deeper soils.
There is still no universally agreed-on explanation for why there should be such a dramatic cessation of tree growth at the upper timberline.
Above the tree line there is a zone that is generally called alpine tundra.
At this great height, rocks, warmed by the sun, melt small snowdrifts.
Very exciting discoveries have finally allowed scientists to reconstruct the most likely origins of cetaceans.
The fossil was officially named Pakicetus in honor of the country where the discovery was made.
The river that formed these deposits was actually not far from an ancient ocean known as the Tethys Sea.
It has been suggested that Pakicetus fed on fish in shallow water and was not yet adapted for life in the open ocean.
Such legs would have been far too small to have supported the 50-foot-long Basilosaurus on land.
The expansion of desert-like conditions into areas where they did not previously exist is called desertification.
Even in the areas that retain a soil cover, the reduction of vegetation typically results in the loss of the soil's ability to absorb substantial quantities of water.
The impact of raindrops on the loose soil tends to transfer fine clay particles into the tiniest soil spaces, sealing them and producing a surface that allows very little water penetration.
These regions are especially likely to have periods of severe dryness, so that crop failures are common.
The raising of livestock is a major economic activity in semiarid lands, where grasses are generally the dominant type of natural vegetation.
This is usually followed by the drying of the soil and accelerated erosion. 
In the peepshow format, a film was viewed through a small opening in a machine that was created for that purpose.
These early projection devices were used in vaudeville theaters, legitimate theaters, local town halls, makeshift storefront theaters, fairgrounds, and amusement parks to show films to a mass audience.
Of all the visual arts, architecture affects our lives most directly for it determines the character of the human environment in major ways.
Buildings contribute to human life when they provide shelter, enrich space, complement their site, suit the climate, and are economically feasible.
In order for the structure to achieve the size and strength necessary to meet its purpose, architecture employs methods of support that, because they are based on physical laws, have changed little since people first discovered them  even while building materials have changed dramatically.
Modern architectural forms generally have three separate components comparable to elements of the human body: a supporting skeleton or frame, an outer skin enclosing the interior spaces, and equipment, similar to the body  s vital organs and systems.
That invention was the arch, a curved structure originally made of separate stone or brick segments.
This aquifer was named the Ogallala aquifer after the Ogallala Sioux Indians, who once inhabited the region.
The Ogallala aquifer is a sandstone formation that underlies some 583,000 square kilometers of land extending from northwestern Texas to southern South Dakota.
Water from rains and melting snows has been accumulating in the Ogallala for the past 30,000 years.
The first wells were drilled into the Ogallala during the drought years of the early 1930s.
The ensuing rapid expansion of irrigation agriculture, especially from the 1950s onward, transformed the economy of the region.
More than 100,000 wells now tap the Ogallala.
Ogallala water has enabled the High Plains region to supply significant amounts of the cotton, sorghum, wheat, and corn grown in the United States.
This unprecedented development of a finite groundwater resource with an almost negligible natural recharge rate  that is, virtually no natural water source to replenish the water supply  has caused water tables in the region to fall drastically.
It is projected that the remaining Ogallala water will, by the year 2030, support only 35 to 40 percent of the irrigated acreage in Texas that is supported in 1980.
The reaction of farmers to the inevitable depletion of the Ogallala varies.
Others, however, have adopted the philosophy that it is best to use the water while it is still economically profitable to do so and to concentrate on high-value crops such as cotton.
The first community in a succession is called a pioneer community, while the long-lived community at the end of succession is called a climax community.
Support for this idea came from the observation that long-lasting climax communities usually have more complex food webs and more species diversity than pioneer communities.
The first problem is that ecologists do not all agree what   stability   means.
This kind of stability is also called resilience.
Ecologists are especially interested to know what factors contribute to the resilience of communities because climax communities all over the world are being severely damaged or destroyed by human activities.
Deer may move from high-elevation browse areas in summer down to the lowland areas in late fall.
A worsening of the plight of deer was to be expected as settlers encroached on the land, logging, burning, and clearing, eventually replacing a wilderness landscape with roads, cities, towns, and factories.
Recall the fate of the Columbian white-tailed deer, now in a protected status.
Wildlife zoologist Helmut Buechner(1953), in reviewing the nature of biotic changes in Washington through recorded time, says that "since the early 1940s, the state has had more deer than at any other time in its history, the winter population fluctuating around approximately 320,000 deer (mule and black-tailed deer), which will yield about 65,000 of either sex and any age annually for an indefinite period."
In addition to finding an increase of suitable browse, like huckleberry and vine maple, Arthur Einarsen, longtime game biologist in the Pacific Northwest, found quality of browse in the open areas to be substantially more nutritive.
The early Australians may have painted on the walls of rock shelters and cliff faces at least 30,000 years ago, and maybe as much as 60,000 years ago. 
The researchers Peter Ucko and Andree Rosenfeld identified three principal locations of paintings in the caves of western Europe: (1) in obviously inhabited rock shelters and cave entrances; (2) in galleries immediately off the inhabited areas of caves; and (3) in the inner reaches of caves, whose difficulty of access has been interpreted by some as a sign that magical-religious activities were performed there. 
The paintings rest on bare walls, with no backdrops or environmental trappings.
The organic matter may partially decompose, using up the dissolved oxygen in the sediment.
As muddy sediments are pressed together, the gas and small droplets of oil may be squeezed out of the mud and may move into sandy layers nearby.
Both oil and gas are less dense than water, so they generally tend to rise upward through water-saturated rock and sediment. 
Permanent towers, called derricks, used to be built to handle the long sections of drilling pipe.
When the well reaches a pool, oil usually rises up the well because of its density difference with water beneath it or because of the pressure of expanding gas trapped above it.
Gas pressure gradually dies out, and oil is pumped from the well.
It may be in a pool too small or too far from a potential market to justify the expense of drilling.
Spillage from huge oil-carrying cargo ships, called tankers, involved in collisions or accidental groundings (such as the one off Alaska in 1989) can create oil slicks at sea.
Finally, the refining and burning of petroleum and its products can cause air pollution.
Even nitrogen, which is a gas in its elemental state, is normally absorbed from the soil as nitrate ions.
So-called serpentine soils, for example, are deficient in calcium, and only plants able to tolerate low levels of this mineral can survive.
Typically, older leaves are affected first as the phosphorus is mobilized to young growing tissue.
Much of the research on nutrient deficiencies is based on growing plants hydroponically, that is, in soilless liquid nutrient solutions.
This technique allows researchers to create solutions that selectively omit certain nutrients and then observe the resulting effects on the plants.
Scientists have known for some time that certain plants, called hyperaccumulators, can concentrate minerals at levels a hundredfold or greater than normal.
Only recently have investigators considered using these plants to clean up soil and waste sites that have been contaminated by toxic levels of heavy metals Can environmentally friendly approach known as phytoremediation.
The greater Pacific region, traditionally called Oceania, consists of three cultural areas: Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia.
Micronesia, the area north of Melanesia, consists primarily of small scattered islands.
Speculation on the origin of these Pacific islanders began as soon as outsiders encountered them, in the absence of solid linguistic, archaeological, and biological data, many fanciful and mutually exclusive theories were devised.
Many older theories implicitly deprecated the navigational abilities and overall cultural creativity of the Pacific islanders.
In 1947 Norwegian adventurer Thor Heyerdahl drifted on a balsa-log raft westward with the winds and currents across the Pacific from South America to prove his theory that Pacific islanders were Native Americans (also called American Indians).
It is now generally believed that these prerequisites originated with peoples speaking Austronesian languages (a group of several hundred related languages) and began to emerge in Southeast Asia by about 5000 B.C.E.
Contrary to the arguments of some that much of the pacific was settled by Polynesians accidentally marooned after being lost and adrift, it seems reasonable that this feat was accomplished by deliberate colonization expeditions that set out fully stocked with food and domesticated plants and animals.
These expeditions were likely driven by population growth and political dynamics on the home islands, as well as the challenge and excitement of exploring unknown waters.  
Because all Polynesians, Micronesians, and many Melanesians speak Austronesian languages and grow crops derived from Southeast Asia, all these peoples most certainly derived from that region and not the New World or elsewhere.
During a geologically brief 100-million-year period, all modern animal groups (along with other animals that are now extinct) evolved.
At one time, the animals present in these fossil beds were assigned to various modern animal groups, but most paleontologists now agree that all Tommotian fossils represent unique body forms that arose in the early Cambrian period and disappeared before the end of the period, leaving no descendants in modern animal groups.
This fossil formation, called the Burgess Shale, is in Yoho National Park in the Canadian Rocky Mountains of British Columbia.
These unassignable animals include a large swimming predator called Anomalocaris and a soft-bodied animal called Wiwaxia, which ate detritus or algae.
For example, a well-known Burgess Shale animal called Sidneyia is a representative of a previously unknown group of arthropods (a category of animals that includes insects, spiders, mites, and crabs).
No one really knows.
Many zoologists believe that it was because so many ecological niches were available with virtually no competition from existing species.
Only the last of these was suited at all to the continuous operating of machines, and although waterpower abounded in Lancashire and Scotland and ran grain mills as well as textile mills, it had one great disadvantage: streams flowed where nature intended them to, and water-driven factories had to be located on their banks whether or not the location was desirable for other reasons.
When he grew older, William Smith taught himself surveying from books he bought with his small savings, and at the age of eighteen he was apprenticed to a surveyor of the local parish.
He later worked on similar jobs across the length and breadth of England, all the while studying the newly revealed strata and collecting all the fossils he could find.
In 1831 when Smith was finally recognized by the Geological Society of London as the   father of English geology,   it was not only for his maps but also for something even more important.
Quartz is quartz  a silicon ion surrounded by four oxygen ions  there  s no difference at all between two-million-year-old Pleistocene quartz and Cambrian quartz created over 500 million years ago.
By following the fossils, Smith was able to put all the strata of England's earth into relative temporal sequence.
Soon it was realized that this principle of faunal (animal) succession was valid not only in England or France but virtually everywhere.
It was actually a principle of floral succession as well, because plants showed the same transformation through time as did fauna.
Most people remember only a few events  usually ones that were meaningful and distinctive, such as being hospitalized or a sibling  s birth. 
How might this inability to recall early experiences be explained?
Nor does the hypothesis that infantile amnesia reflects repression  or holding back  of sexually charged episodes explain the phenomenon.
Whether people can remember an event depends critically on the fit between the way in which they earlier encoded the information and the way in which they later attempt to retrieve it.
The better able the person is to reconstruct the perspective from which the material was encoded, the more likely that recall will be successful. 
Older children and adults often try to retrieve the names of things they saw, but infants would not have encoded the information verbally.
These three explanations of infantile amnesia are not mutually exclusive; indeed, they support each other.
Hearing the stories may lead preschoolers to encode aspects of events that allow them to form memories they can access as adults.
Thus, all three explanations  physiological maturation, hearing and producing stories about past events, and improved encoding of key aspects of events  seem likely to be involved in overcoming infantile amnesia.
In 1970 geologists Kenneth J. Hsu and William B.F. Ryan were collecting research data while aboard the oceanographic research vessel Glomar Challenger.
Another task for the Glomar Challenger  s scientists was to try to determine the origin of the domelike masses buried deep beneath the Mediterranean seafloor.
Were they salt domes such as are common along the United States Gulf Coast, and if so, why should there have been so much solid crystalline salt beneath the floor of the Mediterranean? 
With question such as these clearly before them, the scientists aboard the Glomar Challenger processed to the Mediterranean to search for the answers.
As they drilled into the central and deepest part of the Mediterranean basin, the scientists took solid, shiny, crystalline salt from the core barrel.
Only a few organisms especially tolerant of very salty conditions remained.
Later, under the weight of overlying sediments, this salt flowed plastically upward to form salt domes.
Turbulent waters tore into the hardened salt flats, broke them up, and ground them into the pebbles observed in the first sample taken by the Challenger.
Like the stone of Roman wall, which were held together both by the regularity of the design and by that peculiarly powerful Roman cement, so the various parts of the Roman realm were bonded into a massive, monolithic entity by physical, organizational, and psychological controls.
Of course, the contrast is not quite so stark: in Alexander the Great the Greeks had found the greatest territorial conqueror of all time; and the Romans, once they moved outside Italy, did not fail to learn the lessons of sea power.
In all probability it was the fertile plain of Latium, where the Latins who founded Rome originated, that created the habits and skills of landed settlement, landed property, landed economy, landed administration, and a land-based society.
As always, there are the power worshippers, especially among historians, who are predisposed to admire whatever is strong, who feel more attracted to the might of Rome than to the subtlety of Greece.
In speculative philosophy and the sciences, the Romans made virtually no advance on early achievements. 
The Roman genius was projected into new spheres  especially into those of law, military organization, administration, and engineering.
Horses were adopted by peoples of the West African savannah, and later their powerful cavalry forces allowed them to carve out large empires.
Finally, the camel was introduced around the first century A.D.
Most of Africa presents a curious case in which societies moved directly from a technology of stone to iron without passing through the intermediate stage of copper or bronze metallurgy, although some early copper-working sites have been found in West Africa.
Unlike in the Americas, where metallurgy was a very late and limited development, Africans had iron from a relatively early date, developing ingenious furnaces to produce the high heat needed for production and to control the amount of air that reached the carbon and iron ore necessary for making iron.
Why and how these people spread out into central and southern Africa remains a mystery, but archaeologists believe that their iron weapons allowed them to conquer their hunting-gathering opponents, who still used stone implements.
How did this tremendous development take place, and why did it happen in the Teotihuac  n Valley?
Among the main factors are Teotihuac  n  s geographic location on a natural trade route to the south and east of the Valley of Mexico, the obsidian resources in the Teotihuac  n Valley itself, and the valley  s potential for extensive irrigation.
The exact role of other factors is much more difficult to pinpoint Dfor instance, Teotihuac  n  s religious significance as a shrine, the historical situation in and around the Valley of Mexico toward the end of the first millennium B.C., the ingenuity and foresightedness of Teotihuac  n  s elite, and, finally, the impact of natural disasters, such as the volcanic eruptions of the late first millennium B.C.
This last factor is at least circumstantially implicated in Teotihuac  n  s rise.
Prior to 200 B.C., a number of relatively small centers coexisted in and near the Valley of Mexico.
The valley, like many other places in Mexican and Guatemalan highlands, was rich in obsidian.
Finally, the growing population was probably fed by increasing the number and size of irrigated fields.
All this led to increased wealth, which in turn would attract more immigrants to Teotihuac  n. The growing power of the elite, who controlled the economy, would give them the means to physically coerce people to move to Teotihuac  n and serve as additions to the labor force.
Off and on throughout the Cretaceous (the last period of the Mesozoic era, during which dinosaurs flourished), large shallow seas covered extensive areas of the continents.
The shallow seas on the continents probably buffered the temperature of the nearby air, keeping it relatively constant.
Over a period of about 100,000 years, while the seas pulled back, climates around the world became dramatically more extreme: warmer days, cooler nights; hotter summers, colder winters.
It  s hard to understand why they would not be affected, whereas dinosaurs were left too crippled to cope, especially if, as some scientists believe, dinosaurs were warm-blooded.
Critics also point out that the shallow seaways had retreated from and advanced on the continents numerous times during the Mesozoic, so why did the dinosaurs survive the climatic changes associated with the earlier fluctuations but not with this one?
Although initially appealing, the hypothesis of a simple climatic change related to sea levels is insufficient to explain all the data.
Because it usually exists in a metallic state, it was preferentially incorporated in Earth  s core as the planet cooled and consolidated.
Even today, microscopic meteorites continually bombard Earth, falling on both land and sea.
By measuring how many of these meteorites fall to Earth over a given period of time, scientists can estimate how long it might have taken to deposit the observed amount of Ir in the boundary clay.
So the unusually high concentration of Ir seems to require a special explanation.
In view of these facts, scientists hypothesized that a single large asteroid, about 10 to 15 kilometers across, collided with Earth, and the resulting fallout created the boundary clay.
They bear a strong resemblance to river systems on Earth, and geologists think that they are dried-up beds of long-gone rivers that once carried rainfall on Mars from the mountains down into the valleys.
They appear only in equatorial regions and generally do not form extensive interconnected networks.
Aside from some small-scale gullies (channels) found since 2000, which are inconclusive, astronomers have no direct evidence for liquid water anywhere on the surface of Mars today, and the amount of water vapor in the Martian atmosphere is tiny.
Where did all the water go?
The answer may be that virtually all the water on Mars is now locked in the permafrost layer under the surface, with more contained in the planet  s polar caps.
It has long been accepted that the Americas were colonized by a migration of peoples from Asia, slowly traveling across a land bridge called Beringia (now the Bering Strait between northeastern Asia and Alaska) during the last Ice Age.
Until the early 1970s,most archaeologists did not consider the coast a possible migration route into the Americas because geologists originally believed that during the last Ice Age the entire Northwest Coast was covered by glacial ice.
He theorized that with the use of watercraft, people gradually colonized unglaciated refuges and areas along the continental shelf exposed by the lower sea level.
This was justified by the view that reflective practice could help teachers to feel more intellectually involved in their role and work in teaching and enable them to cope with the paucity of scientific fact and the uncertainty of knowledge in the discipline of teaching. 
Becoming a reflective practitioner requires extra work (Jaworski, 1993) and has only vaguely defined goals with, perhaps, little initially perceivable reward and the threat of vulnerability.
There appear to be many unexplored matters about the motivation to reflect  C for example, the value of externally motivated reflection as opposed to that of teachers who might reflect by habit. 
These plants propagate by producing spores Ctiny fertilized cells that contain all the instructions for making a new plant Cbut the spore are unprotected by any outer coating and carry no supply of nutrient.
Vast numbers of them fall on the ground beneath the mother plants.
But only those few spores that settle down in very favorable locations can start new life; the vast majority fall on barren ground.
One type of seed-bearing plant, the angiosperm, includes all forms of blooming vegetation.
The ceramics fall into three broad types  earthenware, stoneware, and porcelain  for vessels, architectural items such as roof tiles, and modeled objects and figures.
The Chinese themselves adapted many specific vessel forms from the West, such as bottles with long spouts, and designed a range of decorative patterns especially for the European market.
Generally, the layering occurs on an annual basis, hence the observed changes in the records can be dated.
Information on temperature, rainfall, and other aspects of the climate that can be inferred from the systematic changes in properties is usually referred to as proxy data.
Equally striking, however, is the relative stability of the climate in the past 10,000 years (the Holocene period).
To the extent that the coverage of the global climate from these records can provide a measure of its true variability, it should at least indicate how all the natural causes of climate change have combined.
These include the chaotic fluctuations of the atmosphere, the slower but equally erratic behavior of the oceans, changes in the land surfaces, and the extent of ice and snow.
One way to estimate how all the various processes leading to climate variability will combine is by using computer models of the global climate.
Studies suggest that to date the variability in computer simulations is considerably smaller than in data obtained from the proxy records.
Such villages, however, generally lay in regions of relatively advanced agricultural production, permitting not only the survival of peasants but also the accumulation of an agricultural surplus for investment.
Population growth generated an expansion of small-scale manufacturing, particularly of handicrafts, textiles, and metal production in England, Flanders, parts of northern Italy, the southwestern German states, and parts of Spain.
The majority of three-dimensional representations, whether standing, seated, or kneeling, exhibit what is called frontality: they face straight ahead, neither twisting nor turning.
Very often such statues were enclosed in rectangular shrines or wall niches whose only opening was at the front, making it natural for the statue to display frontality.
Statues were normally made of stone, wood, or metal.
The stone between the arms and the body and between the legs in standing figures or the legs and the seat in seated ones was not normally cut away.
From a practical aspect this protected the figures against breakage and psychologically gives the images a sense of strength and power, usually enhanced by a supporting back pillar.
Apart from statues representing deities, kings, and named members of the elite that can be called formal, there is another group of three-dimensional representations that depicts generic figures, frequently servants, from the nonelite population.
Early in his research, Kramer found that caged migratory birds became very restless at about the time they would normally have begun migration in the wild.
However, its position with respect to the surroundings could be changed by revolving either the inner cage containing the birds or the outer walls, which served as the background.
Whether the box appeared in front of the right wall or the left wall, they showed no signs of confusion.
A planetarium is essentially a theater with a domelike ceiling onto which a night sky can be projected for any night of the year.
In fact, when tapes of begging tree swallows were played at an artificial swallow nest containing an egg, the egg in that   noisy   nest was taken or destroyed by predators before the egg in a nearby quiet nest in 29 of 37 trials.
Further evidence for the costs of begging comes from a study of differences in the begging calls of warbler species that nest on the ground versus those that nest in the relative safety of trees.
These higher-frequency sounds do not travel as far, and so may better conceal the individuals producing them, who are especially vulnerable to predators in their ground nests.
David Haskell created artificial nests with clay eggs and placed them on the ground beside a tape recorder that played the begging calls of either tree-nesting or of ground-nesting warblers.
The eggs   advertised   by the tree-nesters' begging calls were found bitten significantly more often than the eggs associated with the ground-nesters' calls.
The hypothesis that begging calls have evolved properties that reduce their potential for attracting predators yields a prediction: baby birds of species that experience high rates of nest predation should produce softer begging signals of higher frequency than nestlings of other species less often victimized by nest predators.
This prediction was supported by data collected in one survey of 24 species from an Arizona forest, more evidence that predator pressure favors the evolution of begging calls that are hard to detect and pinpoint.
One possibility is that a noisy baby bird provides accurate signals of its real hunger and good health, making it worthwhile for the listening parent to give it food in a nest where several other offspring are usually available to be fed.
When experimentally deprived baby robins are placed in a nest with normally fed siblings, the hungry nestlings beg more loudly than usual  but so do their better-fed siblings, though not as loudly as the hungrier birds.
If parent birds use begging intensity to direct food to healthy offspring capable of vigorous begging, then parents should make food delivery decisions on the basis of their offsprings   calls.
Indeed, if you take baby tree swallows out of a nest for an hour feeding half the set and starving the other half, when the birds are replaced in the nest, the starved youngsters beg more loudly than the fed birds, and the parent birds feed the active beggars more than those who beg less vigorously.
But the question arises, why don't nestlings beg loudly when they aren't all that hungry?
The answer lies apparently not in the increased energy costs of exaggerated begging  such energy costs are small relative to the potential gain in calories  but rather in the damage that any successful cheater would do to its siblings, which share genes with one another.
Therefore, a begging nestling that secures food at the expense of its siblings might actually leave behind fewer copies of its genes overall than it might otherwise.
We all know that many more people today are right-handed than left-handed.
Most engravings, for example, are best lit from the left, as befits the work of right-handed artists, who generally prefer to have the light source on the left so that the shadow of their hand does not fall on the tip of the engraving tool or brush.
Occasionally one can determine whether stone tools were used in the right hand or the left, and it is even possible to assess how far back this feature can be traced.
Despite all the highly visible technological developments in theatrical and home delivery of the moving image that have occurred over the decades since then, no single innovation has come close to being regarded as a similar kind of watershed.
They were interested in all forms of sound technology and all potential avenues for commercial exploitation.
At the production level, in the United States the conversion was virtually complete by 1930.
In Europe it took a little longer, mainly because there were more small producers for whom the costs of sound were prohibitive, and in other parts of the world problems with rights or access to equipment delayed the shift to sound production for a few more years (though cinemas in major cities may have been wired in order to play foreign sound films).
Rainfall is not completely absent in desert areas, but it is highly variable.
An annual rainfall of four inches is often used to define the limits of a desert.
The impact of rainfall upon the surface water and groundwater resources of the desert is greatly influenced by landforms.
Flats and depressions where water can collect are common features, but they make up only a small part of the landscape.
For centuries, the annual floods of the Nile, Tigris, and Euphrates, for example, have brought fertile silts and water to the inhabitants of their lower valleys.
The filling of the Ataturk and other dams in Turkey has drastically reduced flows in the Euphrates, with potentially serious consequences for Syria and Iraq.
The desert sections of long rivers respond several months after rain has fallen outside the desert, so that peak flows may be in the dry season.
These are generally fed by groundwater springs, and many issue from limestone massifs, such as the Atlas Mountains in Morocco.
Most desert streambeds are normally dry, but they occasionally receive large flows of water and sediment.
But only a small fraction of groundwater enters the hydrological cycle  feeding the flows of streams, maintaining lake levels, and being recharged (or refilled) through surface flows and rainwater.
Most shallow aquifers in sand and gravel deposits produce lower yields, but they can be rapidly recharged.
The mineral content of groundwater normally increases with the depth, but even quite shallow aquifers can be highly saline.
When an association continues long enough for two people to become linked together by a relatively stable set of expectations, it is called a relationship.
Expressive ties are social links formed when we emotionally invest ourselves in and commit ourselves to other people.
Occasionally, this may mean working with instead of against competitors.
We find it difficult to get to know people personally when they are milling about and dispersed in large groups.
In small groups we have a better chance to initiate contact and establish rapport with them.
Second, face-to-face contact allows us to size up others.
Our ties with people often deepen as we interact with them across time and gradually evolve interlocking habits and interests.
Within them, we experience companionship, love, security, and an overall sense of well-being.
For instance, some social groups employ shunning (a person can remain in the community, but others are forbidden to interact with the person) as a device to bring into line individuals whose behavior goes beyond that allowed by the particular group.
Survival and successful reproduction usually require the activities of animals to be coordinated with predictable events around them.
Normally, the constantly changing levels of an animal's activity  sleeping, feeding, moving, reproducing, metabolizing, and producing enzymes and hormones, for example  are well coordinated with environmental rhythms, but the key question is whether the animal's schedule is driven by external cues, such as sunrise or sunset, or is instead dependent somehow on internal timers that themselves generate the observed biological rhythms.
Almost universally, biologists accept the idea that all eukaryotes (a category that includes most organisms except bacteria and certain algae) have internal clocks.
For instance, apparently normal daily periods of biological activity were maintained for about a week by the fungus Neurospora when it was intentionally isolated from all geophysical timing cues while orbiting in a space shuttle.
Like almost all daily cycles of animals deprived of environmental cues, those measured for the horseshoe crabs in these conditions were not exactly 24 hours.
Such a rhythm whose period is approximately  but not exactly  a day is called circadian.
A particular animal typically maintains its own characteristic cycle duration with great precision for many days.
Further evidence for persistent internal rhythms appears when the usual external cycles are shifted  either experimentally or by rapid east-west travel over great distances.
Typically, the animal's daily internally generated cycle of activity continues without change.
Such an external cue not only coordinates an animal's daily rhythms with particular features of the local solar day but also  because it normally does so day after day-seems to keep the internal clock's period close to that of Earth's rotation.
Yet despite this synchronization of the period of the internal cycle, the animal's timer itself continues to have its own genetically built-in period close to, but different from, 24 hours.
Without the external cue, the difference accumulates and so the internally regulated activities of the biological day drift continuously, like the tides, in relation to the solar day.
Normally, internal rhythms are kept in step by regular environmental cycles.
The Independent Television Commission, regulator of television advertising in the United Kingdom, has criticized advertisers for "misleadingness"  creating a wrong impression either intentionally or unintentionally  in an effort to control advertisers' use of techniques that make it difficult for children to judge the true size, action, performance, or construction of a toy.
For example, the claim that breakfast cereal has a health benefit may be accompanied by the disclaimer "when part of a nutritionally balanced breakfast."
However, research has shown that children often have difficulty understanding disclaimers: children may interpret the phrase "when part of a nutritionally balanced breakfast" to mean that the cereal is required as a necessary part of a balanced breakfast.
In a content analysis of Canadian television, the author Stephen Kline observed that nearly all commercials for character toys featured fantasy play.
Advertisements for breakfast cereals have, for many years, been found to be especially fond of fantasy techniques, with almost nine out of ten including such content.
Generally, there is uncertainty as to whether very young children can distinguish between fantasy and reality in advertising.
The intention is for the positively perceived attributes of the celebrity to be transferred to the advertised product and for the two to become automatically linked in the audience's mind.
Properly speaking, tropical rainforests grow in high-rainfall equatorial areas that remain wet or humid all year round.
If one focuses on the wet months, one calls the Maya homeland a "seasonal tropical forest"; if one focuses on the dry months, one could instead describe it as a "seasonal desert."
From north to south in the Yucatan Peninsula, where the Maya lived, rainfall ranges from 18 to 100 inches (457 to 2,540 millimeters) per year, and the soils become thicker, so that the southern peninsula was agriculturally more productive and supported denser populations.
But rainfall in the Maya homeland is unpredictably variable between years; some recent years have had three or four times more rain than other years.
As a result, modern farmers attempting to grow corn in the ancient Maya homelands have faced frequent crop failures, especially in the north.
Although southern Maya areas received more rainfall than northern areas, problems of water were paradoxically more severe in the wet south.
In the northern peninsula the elevation is sufficiently low that the ancient Maya were able to reach the water table at deep sinkholes called cenotes, or at deep caves.
It initially surprises us that many of their cities were not built next to the rivers but instead on high terrain in rolling uplands.
It is the use of horses for transportation and warfare that explains why Inner Eurasian pastoralism proved the most mobile and the most militaristic of all major forms of pastoralism.
This is particularly true of the horse pastoralism that emerged in the Inner Eurasian steppes, for this was the most mobile of all major forms of pastoralism.
Inequalities of wealth and rank certainly exist, and have probably existed in most pastoralist societies, but except in periods of military conquest, they are normally too slight to generate the stable, hereditary hierarchies that are usually implied by the use of the term class.
Maintaining a high body temperature through sheer bulk is called gigantothermy.
It apparently works, in a smaller way, for some other sea turtles.
The solution is to allow the flippers to cool down without drawing heat away from the rest of the turtle  s body.
Hatchlings are simply too small to conserve body heat, even with insulation and countercurrent exchange systems.
Cases in which many species become extinct within a geologically short interval of time are called mass extinctions.
Some of the proposed mechanisms required a very brief period during which all extinctions suddenly took place; other mechanisms would be more likely to have taken place more gradually, over an extended period, or at different times on different continents.
American paleontologists David Raup and John Sepkoski, who have studied extinction rates in a number of fossil groups, suggest that episodes of increased extinction have recurred periodically, approximately every 26 million years since the mid-Cretaceous period.
The possibility that mass extinctions may recur periodically has given rise to such hypotheses as that of a companion star with a long-period orbit deflecting other bodies from their normal orbits, making some of them fall to Earth as meteors and causing widespread devastation upon impact.
The reduced level of photosynthesis led to a massive decline in plant life of all kinds, and this caused massive starvation first of herbivores and subsequently of carnivores.
Debris thrown into the atmosphere by an asteroid collision would presumably contain large amounts of iridium, and atmospheric currents would carry this material all over the globe.
A location called Chicxulub, along the Yucatan coast, has been suggested as the primary impact site.
Glaciers are slowly moving masses of ice that have accumulated on land in areas where more snowfalls during a year than melts.
Snow falls as hexagonal crystals, but once on the ground, snow is soon transformed into a compacted mass of smaller, rounded grains.
With further melting, refreezing, and increased weight from newer snowfall above, the snow reaches a granular recrystallized stage intermediate between flakes and ice known as firn.
With additional time, pressure, and refrozen meltwater from above, the small firn granules become larger, interlocked crystals of blue glacial ice.
When the ice is thick enough, usually over 30 meters, the weight of the snow and firn will cause the ice crystals toward the bottom to become plastic and to flow outward or downward from the area of snow accumulation.
For a glacier to grow or maintain its mass, there must be sufficient snowfall to match or exceed the annual loss through melting, evaporation, and calving, which occurs when the glacier loses solid chunks as icebergs to the sea or to large lakes.
If summer temperatures are high for too long, then all the snowfall from the previous winter will melt.
Surplus snowfall is essential for a glacier to develop.
A surplus allows snow to accumulate and for the pressure of snow accumulated over the years to transform buried snow into glacial ice with a depth great enough for the ice to flow.
In contrast, should another ice age occur, sea level would drop drastically.
When snowfalls on high mountains or in polar regions, it may become part of the glacial system.
Glaciers move slowly across the land with tremendous energy, carving into even the hardest rock formations and thereby reshaping the landscape as they engulf, push, drag, and finally deposit rock debris in places far from its original location.
Present-day glaciers are found in Antarctica, in Greenland, and at high elevations on all the continents except Australia.
In the recent past, from about 2.4 million to about 10,000 years ago, nearly a third of Earth  s land area was periodically covered by ice thousands of meters thick.
This has been so since ancient times, partly due to the geology of the area, which is mostly limestone and sandstone, with few deposits of metallic ore and other useful materials.
Production was generally in the hands of skilled individual artisans doing piecework under the tutelage of a master who was also the shop owner.
In these shops differences of rank were blurred as artisans and masters labored side by side in the same modest establishment, were usually members of the same guild and religious sect, lived in the same neighborhoods, and often had assumed (or real) kinship relationships.
This mode of craft production favored the growth of self-governing and ideologically egalitarian craft guilds everywhere in the Middle Eastern city.
These were essentially professional associations that provided for the mutual aid and protection of their members, and allowed for the maintenance of professional standards.
In the multiplicity of small-scale local egalitarian or quasi-egalitarian organizations for fellowship, worship, and production that flourished in this laissez-faire environment, individuals could interact with one another within a community of harmony and ideological equality, following their own popularly elected leaders and governing themselves by shared consensus while minimizing distinctions of wealth and power.
Nor have merchants and artisans ever had much tolerance for aristocratic professions of moral superiority, favoring instead an egalitarian ethic of the open market, where steady hard work, the loyalty of one's fellows, and entrepreneurial skill make all the difference.
Dependence on long-distance trade also meant that the great empires of the Middle East were built both literally and figuratively on shifting sand.
The central state, though often very rich and very populous, was intrinsically fragile, since the development of new international trade routes could undermine the monetary base and erode state power, as occurred when European seafarers circumvented Middle Eastern merchants after Vasco da Gama's voyage around Africa in the late fifteenth century opened up a southern route.
Thus when the series of elements was written so as to begin a new horizontal row with each alkali metal, elements of the same groups were automatically assembled in vertical columns in a periodic table of the elements.
When the German chemist Lothar Meyer and (independently) the Russian Dmitry Mendeleyev first introduced the periodic table in 1869-70, one-third of the naturally occurring chemical elements had not yet been discovered.
Just five years later an element with the proper atomic mass was isolated and named gallium by its discoverer.
The close correspondence between the observed properties of gallium and Mendeleyev  s predictions for eka-aluminum lent strong support to the periodic law.
The Sun is the hub of a huge rotating system consisting of nine planets, their satellites, and numerous small bodies, including asteroids, comets, and meteoroids.
Under the control of the Sun's gravitational force, each planet maintains an elliptical orbit and all of them travel in the same direction.
The planets in our solar system fall into two groups: the terrestrial (Earth-like) planets (Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars) and the Jovian (Jupiter-like) planets (Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune).
Pluto is not included in either category, because its great distance from Earth and its small size make this planet's true nature a mystery.
The largest terrestrial planet, Earth has a diameter only one quarter as great as the diameter of the smallest Jovian planet, Neptune, and its mass is only one seventeenth as great.
Hence, the Jovian planets are often called giants.
The terrestrial planets are mostly rocks: dense rocky and metallic material, with minor amounts of gases.
On the other hand, a comparatively warm body with a small surface gravity, like Earth's moon, is unable to hold even the heaviest gas and thus lacks an atmosphere.
The slightly larger terrestrial planets Earth, Venus, and Mars retain some heavy gases like carbon dioxide, but even their atmospheres make up only an infinitesimally small portion of their total mass.
The orderly nature of our solar system leads most astronomers to conclude that the planets formed at essentially the same time and from the same material as the Sun.
It is hypothesized that the primordial cloud of dust and gas from which all the planets are thought to have condensed had a composition somewhat similar to that of Jupiter.
The explanation may be that the terrestrial planets were once much larger and richer in these materials but eventually lost them because of these bodies' relative closeness to the Sun, which meant that their temperatures were relatively high.
This development, coming as it did when the bottom had fallen out of the European economy, provided an impetus to a long-held desire to secure direct relations with the East by establishing a sea trade.
Spices not only dramatically improved the taste of the European diet but also were used to manufacture perfumes and certain medicines.
But even high-priced commodities like spices had to be transported in large bulk in order to justify the expense and trouble of sailing around the African continent all the way to India and China.
The principal seagoing ship used throughout the Middle Ages was the galley, a long, low ship fitted with sails but driven primarily by oars.
The largest galleys had as many as 50 oarsmen Since they had relatively shallow hulls, they were unstable when driven by sail or when on rough water: hence they were unsuitable for the voyage to the East.
It had a wider and deeper hull than the galley and hence could carry more cargo: increased stability made it possible to add multiple masts and sails.
In the largest caravels, two main masts held large square sails that provided the bulk of the thrust driving the ship forward, while a smaller forward mast held a triangular-shaped sail, called a lateen sail, which could be moved into a variety of positions to maneuver the ship.
A signal might be most easily seen if it is maximally bright.
During courtship and aggressive displays, the turkey enlarges its colored neck collar by inflating sacs in the neck region and then flings about a pendulous part of the colored signaling apparatus as it utters calls designed to attract or repel.
The piercing cries of the rhinoceros hornbill characterize the Southeast Asian rain forest, as do the unmistakable calls of the gibbons.
The first and the third can be key factors in the structure of a biological community; that is, all the populations of organisms living together and potentially interacting in a particular area.
Parasites are usually smaller than their hosts.
At times, it is actually possible to watch the effects of natural selection in host-parasite relationships.
In the first case, the plants provide the bacteria with carbohydrates and other organic compounds, and the bacteria have enzymes that act as catalysts that eventually add nitrogen to the soil, enriching it.
The ants benefit the host tree by attacking virtually anything that touches it.
When the ants are removed, the trees usually die, probably because herbivores damage them so much that they are unable to compete with surrounding vegetation for light and growing space.
However, they industrialized rapidly in the second half of the century, especially in the last two or three decades.
All had small populations.
All exhibited moderate growth rates in the course of the century (Denmark the highest and Sweden the lowest), but all more than doubled in population by 1900.
Considering human capital as a characteristic of the population, however, all four countries were advantaged by the large percentages of their populations who could read and write.
Location was an important factor for all four countries.
The people of the Netherlands, with a long tradition of fisheries and mercantile shipping, had difficulty in developing good harbors suitable for steamships: eventually they did so at Rotterdam and Amsterdam, with exceptional results for transit trade with Germany and central Europe and for the processing of overseas foodstuffs and raw materials (sugar, tobacco, chocolate, grain, and eventually oil).
The nineteenth century passed relatively peacefully for these countries, with progressive democratization taking place in all of them.
They were reasonably well governed, without notable corruption or grandiose state projects, although in all of them the government gave some aid to railways, and in Sweden the state built the main lines.
As small countries dependent on foreign markets, they followed a liberal trade policy in the main, though a protectionist movement developed in Sweden.
In Denmark and Sweden agricultural reforms took place gradually from the late eighteenth century through the first half of the nineteenth, resulting in a new class of peasant landowners with a definite market orientation.
The key factor in the success of these countries (along with high literacy, which contributed to it) was their ability to adapt to the international division of labor determined by the early industrializers and to stake out areas of specialization in international markets for which they were especially well suited.
It exported 80 percent of its butter, almost all to Great Britain, where it accounted for 40 percent of British butter imports.
According to conventional theory, yawning takes place when people are bored or sleepy and serves the function of increasing alertness by reversing, through deeper breathing, the drop in blood oxygen levels that are caused by the shallow breathing that accompanies lack of sleep or boredom.
It might be that yawning helps to clear out the lungs by periodically lowering the pressure in them.
Volunteers wore wrist-mounted devices that automatically recorded their physical activity for up to two weeks: the volunteers also recorded their yawns by pressing a button on the device each time they yawned.
What happens is that small (millimeter-to centimeter-size) pellets of ice form in the cold upper regions of the cloud.
When these ice pellets fall, some of them strike much smaller ice crystals in the center of the cloud.
Below this large, cold, negatively charged region, the cloud is warmer than -15  , and at these temperatures, collisions between ice crystals and falling ice pellets produce positively charged ice pellets that then populate a small region at the base of the cloud. 
Lightning that strikes the ground is the most likely to be destructive, so even though it represents only 20 percent of all lightning, it has received a lot of scientific attention.
The stream of positive particles that meets the surge of electrons from the cloud often arises from a tall pointed structure such as a metal flagpole or a tower.
That is why the subsequent lightning that follows the completed channel often strikes a tall structure.
Once a channel has been formed, it is usually used by several lightning discharges, each of them consisting of a stream of electrons from the cloud meeting a stream of positive particles along the established path.
Locally  a fort had two kinds of impact.
Although goods could be requisitioned, they were usually paid for, and this probably stimulated changes in the local economy.
When not campaigning, soldiers needed to be occupied; otherwise they represented a potentially dangerous source of friction and disloyalty.
Each soldier received his pay, but in regions without a developed economy there was initially little on which it could be spent.
There was informal marriage with soldiers, who until AD 197 were not legally entitled to wed, and whole new communities grew up near the forts.
These settlements acted like small towns, becoming centers for the artisan and trading populations.
Although a small proportion of the total population, this perhaps had a massive local impact when a large proportion of the young men were removed from an area.
Newly raised regiments were normally transferred to another province from whence it was unlikely that individual recruits would ever return.
The circumstances that had allowed natives to become Romanized also led the self-sustaining military community of the frontier area to become effectively British.
An abandoned field, for instance, will be invaded successively by herbaceous plants (plants with little or no woody tissue), shrubs, and trees, eventually becoming a forest.
A general trend can be recognized, but the details are usually unpredictable.
The final stage of a succession, called the climax by Clements and early ecologists, is likewise not predictable or of uniform composition.
There is usually a good deal of turnover in species composition, even in a mature community.
Nevertheless, mature natural environments are usually in equilibrium.
An ant colony may be legitimately called a superorganism because its communication system is so highly organized that the colony always works as a whole and appropriately according to the circumstances.
The spruce community is not substantially affected by either the presence or absence of moose.
Eventually, the energy-transforming role of such a system was emphasized.
Finally, younger ecologists have found ecological problems involving behavior and life-history adaptations more attractive than measuring physical constants.
Nevertheless, one still speaks of the ecosystem when referring to a local association of animals and plants, usually without paying much attention to the energy aspects.
In all these diverse regions, Agassiz saw signs of glacial erosion and sedimentation.
In flat plains country, he saw moraines (accumulations of earth and loose rock that form at the edges of glaciers) that reminded him of the terminal moraines found at the end of valley glaciers in the Alps.
Eventually, Agassiz and others convinced geologists and the general public that a great continental glaciation had extended the polar ice caps far into regions that now enjoy temperate climates.
The fossils buried in Pleistocene and earlier ocean sediments were of foraminifera  small, single-celled marine organisms that secrete shells of calcium carbonate, or calcite.
Isotopic analysis of shells allowed geologists to measure another glacial effect.
The West had plenty of attractions: the alluvial river bottoms, the fecund soils of the rolling forest lands, the black loams of the prairies were tempting to New England farmers working their rocky, sterile land and to southeastern farmers plagued with soil depletion and erosion.
First came the steamboat; although flatboats and keelboats continued to be important until the 1850  s steamboats eventually superseded all other craft in the carrying of passengers and freight.
Eventually, the western states diverted much of their produce from the rivers to the Erie Canal, a shorter route to eastern markets.
The climatic changes in southwestern Asia were more subtle, in that they involved shifts in mountain snow lines, rainfall patterns, and vegetation cover.
At the end of the Ice Age, no more than a few thousand foragers lived along the eastern Mediterranean coast, in the Jordan and Euphrates valleys.
Within 2,000 years, the human population of the region numbered in the tens of thousands, all as a result of village life and farming.
Some local areas, like the Jordan River valley, the middle Euphrates valley, and some Zagros valleys, were more densely populated than elsewhere.
These people exploited the landscape intensively, foraging on hill slopes for wild cereal grasses and nuts, while hunting gazelle and other game on grassy lowlands and in river valleys.
Their settlements contain exotic objects such as seashells, stone bowls, and artifacts made of obsidian (volcanic glass), all traded from afar.
Thanks to extremely fine-grained excavation and extensive use of flotation methods (through which seeds are recovered from soil samples), we know a great deal about the foraging practices of the inhabitants of Abu Hureyra in Syria's Euphrates valley.
Abu Hureyra was founded about 9500B.C, a small village settlement of cramped pit dwellings (houses dug partially in the soil) with reed roofs supported by wooden uprights.
They were no longer a series of small bands but lived in a large community with more elaborate social organization, probably grouped into clans of people of common descent.
The flotation samples from the excavations allowed botanists to study shifts in plant-collecting habits as if they were looking through a telescope at a changing landscape.
By 8200B.C., drought conditions were so severe that the people abandoned their long-established settlement, perhaps dispersing into smaller camps.
It was a close-knit community of rectangular, one-story mud-brick houses, joined by narrow lanes and courtyards, finally abandoned about 5000 B.C..
On occasion, animals and plants have been preserved after becoming immersed in tar or quicksand, trapped in ice or lava flows, or engulfed by rapid falls of volcanic ash.
The term "fossil" often implies petrifaction, literally a transformation into stone.
The empty shell of a snail or clam may be left behind, and if it is sufficiently durable and resistant to dissolution, it may remain basically unchanged for a long period of time.
In many marine creatures, however, the skeleton is composed of a mineral variety of calcium carbonate called aragonite.
This addition of a chemically precipitated substance into pore spaces is termed "permineralization."
Although it is certainly true that the possession of hard parts enhances the prospect of preservation, organisms having soft tissues and organs are also occasionally preserved.
Insects and even small invertebrates have been found preserved in the hardened resins of conifers and certain other trees.
Among the superbly preserved Messel fossils are insects with iridescent exoskeletons (hard outer coverings), frogs with skin and blood vessels intact, and even entire small mammals with preserved fur and soft tissue.
The water is usually naturally occurring groundwater that seeps down along fractures in the rock; less typically, the water is artificially introduced by being pumped down from the surface.
More than 20,000 apartments in France are now heated by warm underground water drawn from a heat reservoir in a geologic structure near Paris called the Paris Basin.
Extracting heat from very hot, dry rocks presents a more difficult problem: the rocks must be fractured to permit the circulation of water, and the water must be provided artificially.
In addition, water heated geothermally can contain salts and toxic materials dissolved from the hot rock.
However, in many places (for example, California, Hawaii, the Philippines, Japan, Mexico, the rift valleys of Africa)the resource is potentially so large that its future will depend on the economics of production.
At present, we can make efficient use of only naturally occurring hot water or steam deposits.
Traditionally, it was believed that the transition to agriculture was the result of a worldwide population crisis.
The temperature increased dramatically in a short period of time (years rather than centuries), allowing for a growth of the hunting-gathering population due to the abundance of resources.
It would appear that the instability of the climatic conditions led populations that had originally been nomadic to settle down and develop a sedentary style of life, which led in turn to population growth and to the need to increase the amount of food available.
Mithen proposes the existence of four mental elements to account for the emergence of farming: (1) the ability to develop tools that could be used intensively to harvest and process plant resources; (2) the tendency to use plants and animals as the medium to acquire social prestige and power; (3) the tendency to develop "social relationships" with animals structurally similar to those developed with people  specifically, the ability to think of animals as people (anthropomorphism) and of people as animals (totemism); and (4) the tendency to manipulate plants and animals.
It is anthropologically important to inquire into the conditions that made some societies adopt agriculture while others remained hunter-gatherers or horticulturalists.
Most people are not able to recount memories for experiences prior to the age of three years, a phenomenon called infantile amnesia.
The question of why infantile amnesia occurs has intrigued psychologists for decades, especially in light of ample evidence that infants and young children can display impressive memory capabilities.
According to this line of thought, the verbal abilities that blossom in the two year old allow events to be coded in a form radically different from the action-based codes of the infant.
No doubt the ability to talk about one's past represents memory of a different level of complexity than simple recognition or recall.
As the seaweed and marsh grass leaves die, bacteria break down the plant material, and insects, small shrimplike organisms, fiddler crabs, and marsh snails eat the decaying plant tissue, digest it, and excrete wastes high in nutrients.
These characteristics make Spartina a valuable component of the estuaries where it occurs naturally.
Once established, a stand of Spartina begins to trap sediment, changing the substrate elevation, and eventually the stand evolves into a high marsh system where Spartina is gradually displaced by higher-elevation, brackish-water species.
Leaving its insect predators behind, the cordgrass has been spreading slowly and steadily along Washington  s tidal estuaries on the west coast, crowding out the native plants and drastically altering the landscape by trapping sediment.
In particular, and quite logically, the art of painting was forever changed, though not always in the ways one might have expected.
The realistic and naturalistic painters of the mid- and late-nineteenth century were all intently aware of photography  as a thing to use, to learn from, and react to.
This was finally achieved by Louis Daguerre (1787-1851), who perfected a way of fixing them on a silvered copper plate.
The calotype was revolutionary in its use of chemically treated paper in which areas hit by light became dark in tone, producing a negative image.
This "negative," as Talbot called it, could then be used to print multiple positive images on another piece of treated paper.
Photography did indeed make certain kinds of painting obsolete  the daguerreotype virtually did away with the portrait miniature.
Scientific experiments made by photographers such as Eadweard Muybridge (1830-1904) and Etienne-Jules Marey (1830-1904) demonstrated that the movements of both humans and animals differed widely from the way they had been traditionally represented in art.
The first meteorite from this fall was found in the village of Pueblito de Allende.
Altogether, roughly two tons of meteorite fragments were recovered, all of which bear the name Allende for the location of the first discovery.
When broken open, Allende stones are revealed to contain an assortment of small, distinctive objects, spherical or irregular in shape and embedded in a dark gray matrix (binding material), which were once constituents of the solar nebula  the interstellar cloud of gas and dust out of which our solar system was formed.
Chondrites take their name from the Greek word chondros  meaning "seed"  an allusion to their appearance as rocks containing tiny seeds.
These seeds are actually chondrules: millimeter-sized melted droplets of silicate material that were cooled into spheres of glass and crystal.
Chondrules must have been melted in small pockets of the nebula that were able to lose heat rapidly.
Equally perplexing constituents of Allende are the refractory inclusions: irregular white masses that tend to be larger than chondrules.
They are composed of minerals uncommon on Earth, all rich in calcium, aluminum, and titanium, the most refractory (resistant to melting) of the major elements in the nebula.
After all, the Sun has many more atoms of any element, say iron, than does a meteorite specimen, but the ratios of iron to silicon in the two kinds of matter might be comparable.
Since practically all the solar system's mass resides in the Sun, this similarity in chemistry means that chondrites have average solar system composition, except for the most volatile elements; they are truly lumps of nebular matter, probably similar in composition to the matter from which planets were assembled.
All the heat that warms a building eventually transfers to the surrounding air, a process that is quickest where houses are poorly insulated.
Two other factors contribute to the higher overall temperature in cities.
The first is the heat capacity of the materials that constitute the city, which is typically dominated by concrete and asphalt.
The maximum differences in temperature between neighboring urban and rural environments is called the heat-island intensity for that region.
Thus, city surfaces, as well as the air above them, tend to be drier between episodes of rain; with little water available for the cooling process of evaporation, relative humidities are usually lower.
Rainfall is also increased in cities.
Dutch agriculture was modernized and commercialized new crops and agricultural techniques raised levels of production so that they were in line with market demands, and cheap grain was imported annually from the Baltic region in large quantities.
However, land reclamation decreased significantly after the middle of the seventeenth century because the price of agricultural products began to fall, making land reclamation far less profitable in the second part of the century. 
Dutch agriculture was finally affected by the general agricultural crisis in Europe during the last two decades of the seventeenth century.
In Europe as a whole, the exceptional reduction in the population and the related fall in demand for grain since the beginning of the seventeenth century had caused the price of agricultural products to fall.
Third, is it possible to interpret accurately the subject matter of ancient rock art, bring to bear all available archaeological techniques and the knowledge of present-day Aboriginal informants?
While accepting that this sequence fits the archaeological profile of those sites, which were occupied continuously over many thousands of years a number of writers have warned that the underlying assumption of such a sequence  a development from the simple and the geometric to the complex and naturalistic  obscures the cultural continuities in Aboriginal Australia, in which geometric symbolism remains fundamentally important.
Water enters a lake from inflowing rivers, from underwater seeps and springs, from overland flow off the surrounding land, and from rain falling directly on the lake surface.
For the majority of lakes, certainly those surrounded by forests, input from overland flow is too small to have a noticeable effect.
Once all this information has been gathered, it becomes possible to judge whether a lake  s flow is mainly due to its surface inputs and outputs or to its underground inputs and outputs.
Occasionally, common sense tells you which of these two possibilities applies.
For example, a pond in hilly country that maintains a steady water level all through a dry summer in spite of having no streams flowing into it must obviously be seepage dominated.
They range from a few days for small lakes up to several hundred years for large ones; Lake Tahoe, in California, has a residence time of 700 years.
Lake Erie  s is the lowest: although its area is larger than Lake Ontario   s, its volume is less than one-third as great because it is so   shallow-less than 20 meters on average.
It depends on the rate at which water enters the lake, and that depends on the rainfall and the evaporation rate.
is dramatically affecting the residence times of some lakes in northwestern Ontario, Canada.
In the period 1970 to 1986, rainfall in the area decreased from 1,000 millimeters to 650 millimeters per annum, while above-average temperatures speeded up the evapotranspiration rate (the rate at which water is lost to the atmosphere through evaporation and the processes of plant life).
The slowing down of water renewal leads to a chain of further consequences; it causes dissolved chemicals to become increasingly concentrated, and this, in turn, has a marked effect on all living things in the lake.
Of all the physiological differences in human sleep compared with wakefulness that have been discovered in the last decade, changes in respiratory control are most dramatic.
During NREM (the phase of sleep in which there is no rapid eye movement) breathing becomes deeper and more regular, but there is also a decrease in the breathing rate, resulting in less air being exchanged overall.
First, there may be a brief cessation or reduction of breathing when falling asleep as the sleeper waxes and wanes between sleep and wakefulness and their differing control mechanisms.
But that is not all that changes.
During all phases of sleep, several changes in the air passages have been observed.
Some of the muscles that help keep the upper airway open when breathing tend to become more relaxed during sleep, especially during REM (the phase of sleep in which there is rapid eye movement).
Without this muscular action, inhaling is like sucking air out of a balloon  the narrow passages tend to collapse.
If something blocks the "good" side, such as congestion from allergies or a cold, then resistance increases dramatically.
This reflexive adjustment is totally absent during NREM sleep.
Finally, the coughing reflex in reaction to irritants in the airway produces not a cough during sleep but a cessation of breathing.
The amount of air exchanged is even lower in REM than NREM because, although breathing is more rapid in REM, it is also more irregular, with brief episodes of shallow breathing or absence of breathing.
In the Mesa Verde area of the ancient North American Southwest, living patterns changed in the thirteenth century, with large numbers of people moving into large communal dwellings called pueblos, often constructed at the edges of canyons, especially on the sides of cliffs.
Abandoning small extended-family households to move into these large pueblos with dozens if not hundreds of other people was probably traumatic.
Few of the cultural traditions and rules that today allow us to deal with dense populations existed for these people accustomed to household autonomy and the ability to move around the landscape almost at will.
And besides the awkwardness of having to share walls with neighbors, living in aggregated pueblos introduced other problems.
The stress on local resources, especially in the firewood needed for daily cooking and warmth, was particularly intense, and conditions in aggregated pueblos were not very hygienic.
Given all the disadvantages of living in aggregated towns, why did people in the thirteenth century move into these closely packed quarters?
Some scholars expand on this idea by emphasizing a corresponding need for arable land to feed growing numbers of people: construction of small dams, reservoirs, terraces, and field houses indicates  that  farmers  were  intensifying  their  efforts  during  the  1200s. 
Although the height of the Little Ice Age was still around the corner, some evidence suggests that temperatures were falling during the thirteenth century.
In the face of all these pushes, people in the Mesa Verde area had yet another reason to move into communal villages: the need for greater cooperation.
Scholars believe that this cooperation allowed people to contend with a patchy environment in which precipitation and other resources varied across the landscape: if you produce a lot of food one year, you might trade it for pottery made by a distant ally who is having difficulty with crops  and the next year, the flow of goods might go in the opposite direction.
But all of this appears to have changed thirteenth century.
Although the climate remained as unpredictable as ever between one year and   the next, it became much less locally diverse.
In a bad year for farming, everyone was equally affected.
Northwest of Tharsis is the largest volcano of all: Olympus Mons, with a height of 25 kilometers and measuring some 700 kilometers in diameter at its base.
The three large volcanoes on the Tharsis bulge are a little smaller-a "mere" 18 kilometers high.
Most of the largest volcanoes are associated with the Tharsis bulge, but many smaller ones are found in the northern plains.
The Mariner spacecraft found that the surface of Mars, as well as that of its two moons, is pitted with impact craters formed by meteoroids falling in from space.
As on our Moon, the smaller craters are often filled with surface matter-mostly dust-confirming that Mars is a dry desert world.
In the fifteenth century there was little problem recruiting sailors to row the galleys (large ships propelled by oars): guilds (business associations) were required to provide rowers, and through a draft system free citizens served compulsorily when called for.
In the early sixteenth century the shortage of rowers was not serious because the demand for galleys was limited by a move to round ships (round-hulled ships with more cargo space), with required fewer rowers.
Arsenale officers first brought timber from the foothills of the Alps, then from north toward Trieste, and finally from across the Adriatic.
The step from buying foreign timber to buying foreign ships was regarded as a short one, especially when complaints were heard in the latter sixteenth century that the standards and traditions of the Arsenale were running down.
Older workers had been allowed to stop work a half hour before the regular time, and in 1601 younger works left with them.
The Venetian Council finally allowed round ships to enter the trade that was previously reserved for merchant galleys, thus reducing transport cost by one third.
Gradually, Venice's role as a storage and distribution center for spices and silk, dyes cotton, and gold decayed, and by the early seventeenth century Venice had lost its monopoly in markets such as France and southern Germany.
Green algae store food as starch, as do land plants and have cell walls made of cellulose, similar in composition to those of land plants.
Again, the good storage and cell wall molecules of red and brown algae are different.
Water temperature can fluctuate seasonally or even daily and changing level of rainfall can lead to fluctuations in the concentration of chemical in the water or even to period in which the aquatic habitat dries up.
When plants pioneered the land, they faced a range of challenges posed by terrestrial environments.
These conditions favored the evolution of the structures that support the body, vessels that transport water and nutrients to all parts of plant, and structures that conserve water.
The resulting adaptations to dry land include some structural features that arose early in plant evolution; now these features are common to virtually all land plant.
They include roots or root like structures, a waxy cuticle that covers the surfaces of leaves and stems and limits the evaporation of water, and pores called stomata in leaves and stems that allow gas exchange but close when water is scarce, thus reducing water loss.
These adaptations allowed an increasing diversity of plant forms to exploit dry land.
In the late 1700s James Watt designed an efficient and commercially viable steam engine that was soon applied to a variety of industrial uses as it became cheaper to use.
Production of British cotton goods increased sixtyfold, and cotton cloth became Great Britain  s most important product, accounting for one-half of all exports.
Parallel rails had long been used in mining operations to move bigger loads, but horses were still the primary source of power.
Most plant tissues die if their water content falls too low: the nutrients that feed plants are transmitted by water; water is a raw material in the vital process of photosynthesis; and water regulates the temperature of a plant by its ability to absorb heat and because water vapor lost to the atmosphere through the leaves helps to lower plant temperatures.
Some areas, because of their soil texture, topographical position, or distance from rivers or groundwater, have virtually no water available to plants, whereas others do.
Seasonal migration is another form of escape, especially for large mammals or birds.
The term retreat is applied to the short-term escape behavior of desert animals, and it usually assumes the pattern of a daily rhythm.
The sparse distribution of the feathers, however, also allows considerable lateral air movement over the skin surface, thereby permitting further heat loss by convection.
Rainfall was limited, and what water there was rushed across the plain in the annual flood of melted snow.
It was these conditions that allowed an elite to emerge, probably as an organizing class, and to sustain itself through the control of surplus crops.
Uruk, for instance, had two patron gods  Anu, the god of the sky and sovereign of all other gods, and Inanna, a goddess of love and war  and there were others, patrons of different cities.
(Trading was important, as so many raw materials, the semiprecious stones for the decoration of the temples, timbers for roofs, and all metals, had to be imported.)
(The Romans called the shape cuneus and this gives the script its name of cuneiform.)
The period from 3000 to 1000 B.C.E., when the use of bronze became widespread, is normally referred to as the Bronze Age.
But a small segment of the urban society started to specialize in nonagricultural tasks as a result of the city  s role as a regional center.
In an early fourth-millennium level of the Eanna archaeological site at Uruk, a pottery style appears that is most characteristic of this process, the so-called beveled-rim bowl.
It is a rather shallow bowl that was crudely made in a mold; hence, in only a limited number of standard sizes.
For some unknown reason, many were discarded, often still intact, and thousands have been found all over the Near East.
Certain images depict groups of people, most likely women, involved in weaving textiles, an activity we know from later third-millennium texts to have been vital in the economy and to have been centrally administered.
Also, a specialized metal-producing workshop may have been excavated in a small area at Uruk.
It contained a number of channels lined by a sequence of holes, about 50 centimeters deep, all showing burn marks and filled with ashes.
This was a small cylinder, usually no more than 3 centimeters high and 2 centimeters in diameter, of shell, bone, faience ( a glassy type of stoneware), or various types of stones, on which a scene was carved into the surface.
Generally speaking, the interiors of plates are geologically uneventful.
A glance at a map of the Pacific Ocean reveals that there are many islands far out at sea that are actually volcanoes  many no longer active, some overgrown with coral  that originated from activity at points in the interior of the Pacific Plate that forms the Pacific seafloor.
The oceanic volcanic islands and their hot-spot trails are thus especially useful for geologists because they record the past locations of the plate over a fixed source.
However, because the ocean basins really are short-lived features on geologic times scales, reconstructing the world  s geography by backtracking along the hot-spot trail works only for the last 5 percent or so of geologic time.
Population cycles are characteristic of small mammals, and they sometimes appear to be brought about by predators.
Its numbers fall tenfold to thirty in a typical cycle, and a hundredfold change can occur.
The Canada lynx shows a ten-year cycle of abundance that parallels the abundance cycle of hares.
As hare numbers fall, so do lynx numbers, as their food supply depleted.
However, the cycle was retained if either of the factors was allowed to operate alone: if predators were excluded but food was not added (food effect alone), or if food was added in the presence of predators (predator effect alone).
When sea stars are removed, species diversity falls sharply.
Therefore, from the stand point of diversity, it is usually a mistake to eliminate a major predator from a community.
There is more than 50 times as much freshwater stored underground than in all the freshwater rivers and lakes at the surface.
Nearly 50 percent of all groundwater is stored in the upper 1,000 meters of Earth.
A groundwater reservoir from which water can be extracted is called an aquifer.
Sedimentary rocks  the most common rock type near the surface  are also the most common reservoirs for water because they contain the most space that can be filled with water.Sandstones generally make good aquifers, while finer-grained mudstones are typically impermeable.
Igneous and metamorphic rocks are more compact, commonly crystalline, and rarely contain spaces between grains.
The water table is the underground boundary below which all the cracks and pores are filled with water.
In some cases, the water table reaches Earth's surface, where it is expressed as rivers, lakes, and marshes.Typically, though, the water table may be tens or hundreds of meters below the surface.The water table is not flat but usually follows the contours of the topography.
Because the surface of the water table is not flat but instead rises and falls with topography, groundwater is affected by gravity in the same fashion as surface water.
As recently as 6000 B.C., the southern frontier of the desert was far to the north of where it is now, while semiarid grassland and shallow freshwater lakes covered much of what are now arid plains.
This was a landscape where antelope of all kinds abounded  along with Bos primigenius, a kind of oxen that has become extinct.
The areas that are now desert were, like all arid regions, very susceptible to cycles of higher and lower levels of rainfall, resulting in major, sudden changes in distributions of plants and animals.
The people who hunted the sparse desert animals responded to drought by managing the wild resources they hunted and gathered, especially wild oxen, which had to have regular water supplies to survive.
Under these circumstances, archaeologist Andrew Smith believes, the small herds of Bos primigenius in the desert became smaller, more closely knit breeding units as the drought took hold.
The Saharan people left a remarkable record of their lives painted on the walls of caves deep in the desert.
On the other hand, rainfall increased in the interior of western Africa, and the northern limit of the tsetse fly, an insect fatal to cattle, moved south.
By this time, the Saharan people were probably using domestic crops, experimenting with such summer rainfall crops as sorghum and millet as they moved out of areas where they could grow wheat, barley, and other Mediterranean crops.
A male deer makes a buck rub by stripping the bark (outer layer) of a small tree with its antlers.
A rub is usually located at the shoulder height of a deer (one meter or less above the ground) on a smooth-barked, small-diameter (16-25 millimeters) tree.
The smooth bark of small red maples makes this species ideal for buck rubs in the forests of the mid-eastern United States. 
Adult male deer usually produce rubs in late summer or early autumn when the outervelvet layer is being shed from their antlers.
However, biologists also noted that deer sniff and lick an unfamiliar rub, which suggests that this visual mark on a small tree plays an important communication purpose in the social life of deer.
The importance of olfactory communication (using odors to communicate) in the way of life of deer was documented by a study of captive adult mule deer a few decades ago, which noted that males rubbed their foreheads on branches and twigs, especially as autumn approached.
It was found that when a white-tailed buck makes a rub, it moves both antlers and forehead glands along the small tree in a vertical direction.
For instance, as we all know, dogs recognize each other via smell.
In view of this behavior it has been suggested that chemicals present in fresh buck rubs may help physiologically induce and synchronize fertility in females that visit these rubs.
This would be an obvious advantage to wide-ranging deer, especially to a socially dominant buck when courting several adult females during the autumn rut.
Scrapes consist of a clearing (about 0.5 meter in diameter) and shallow depression made by pushing aside the leaves covering the ground; after making the scrape, the deer typically urinates in the depression.
Buck scrapes are generally created after leaf-fall in autumn, which is just before or during the rut.
Scrapes are usually placed in open or conspicuous places, such as along a deer trail.
Most are made by older males, although females and younger males (2.5 years old or less) occasionally make scrapes.
Most roman pottery is light and smooth to the touch and very tough, although, like all pottery, it shatters if dropped on a hard surface.
It is generally made with carefully selected and purified clay, worked to thin-walled and standardized shapes on a fast wheel and fired in a kiln (pottery oven) capable of ensuring a consistent finish.
When people today are shown a very ordinary Roman pot and, in particular, are allowed to handle it, they often comment on how modern it looks and feels, and they need to be convinced of its true age.
When considering quantities, we would ideally like to have some estimates for overall production from particular sites of pottery manufacture and for overall consumption at specific settlements.
This abundance is notable in Roman settlements (especially urban sites) where the labor that archaeologists have to put into the washing and sorting of potsherds (fragments of pottery) constitutes a high proportion of the total work during the initial phases of excavation.
On the left bank of the Tiber River in Rome, by one of the river ports of the ancient city, is a substantial hill some 50 meters high called Monte Testaccio.
This was a society with similarities to modern one  moving goods on a gigantic scale, manufacturing high-quality containers to do so, and occasionally, as here, even discarding them on delivery.
Many Roman pots, in particular amphorae and the fine wares designed for use at tables, could travel hundreds of miles  all over the Mediterranean and also further afield.
In all but the remotest regions of the empire, Roman pottery of a high standard is common at the sites of humble villages and isolated farmsteads.
Furthermore, most species do not depend entirely on a single resource, if the major resource for a species becomes scarce, the species can usually shift to alternative resources.
If more than one species is competing for a scarce resource, the competing species usually switch to different alternative resources.
Competition is usually most severe among close relatives with similar demands on the environment.
But it may also occur among totally unrelated forms that compete for the same resource, such as seed-eating rodents and ants.
The effects of such competition are graphically demonstrated when all the animals or all the plants in an ecosystem come into competition, as happened 2 million years ago at the end of the Pliocene, when North and South America became joined by the Isthmus of Panama.
On the basis of these experiments and of field observations, the so-called law of competitive exclusion was formulated, according to which no two species can occupy the same niche.
Numerous seeming exceptions to this law have since been found, but they can usually be explained as cases in which the two species, even though competing for a major joint resource, did not really occupy exactly the same niche.
The physical structure of species competing for resources in the same ecological niche tends to gradually evolve in ways that allow them to occupy different niches.
The evolutionary effect of competition on species has been referred to as "species selection;" however, this description is potentially misleading.
The effect on the well-being and existence of a species is just the result of the effects of selection on all the individuals of the species.
Thus species selection is actually a result of individual selection.
In the case of animals it is usually food; in the case of forest plants it may be light; in the case of substrate inhabitants it may be space, as in many shallow-water bottom-dwelling marine organisms.
Competition is usually the more severe the denser the population.
They revealed output powers ranging from about 1 horsepower to perhaps 60 for the largest wheels and confirmed that for maximum efficiency, the water should pass across the blades as smoothly as possible and fall away with minimum speed, having given up almost all of its kinetic energy.
The growth of the electric-power industry was the result of a remarkable series of scientific discoveries and developments in electrotechnology during the nineteenth century, but significant changes in what we might now call hydro (water) technology also played their part.
The waterwheel, unaltered for nearly 2,000 years, had finally been superseded.
Play is usually very active, involving movement in space and, at times, noisemaking.
Greater activity also increases the risk of injury in slipping or falling.
One group developed in an   enriched   environment, which allowed the rats to interact with other rats, play with toys, and receive maze training.
Thus, active play may provide necessary stimulation to the growth of synaptic connections in the brain, especially the cerebellum, which is responsible for motor functioning and movements.
Prey species, like young deer or goats, for example, typically play by performing sudden flight movements and turns, whereas predator species, such as cats, practice stalking, pouncing, and biting.
Play allows a young animal to explore its environment and practice skills in comparative safety since the surrounding adults generally do not expect the young do deal with threats or predators.
Learning appropriate social behaviors is especially important in species that live in groups, like young monkeys that need to learn to control selfishness and aggression and to understand the give-and-take involved in social groups.
There is a danger, of course, that play may be misinterpreted or not recognized as play by others, potentially leading to aggression.
This is especially true when play consists of practicing normal aggressive or predatory behaviors.
Darwin  s original thesis and the viewpoint supported by evolutionary gradualists, is that species change continuously but slowly and in small increments.
Such changes are all but invisible over the short time scale of modern observations, and, it is argued, they are usually obscured by innumerable gaps in the imperfect fossil record.
In 1972 paleontologists Stephen Jay Gould and Niles Eldredge challenged conventional wisdom with an opposing viewpoint, the punctuated equilibrium hypothesis, which posits that species give rise to new species in relatively sudden bursts, without a lengthy transition period.
These episodes of rapid evolution are separated by relatively long static spans during which a species may hardly change at all.
The punctuated equilibrium hypothesis attempts to explain a curious feature of the fossil record    one that has been familiar to paleontologists for more than a century but has usually been ignored.
Intermediate fossil forms, predicted by gradualism, are typically lacking.
In most localities a given species of clam or coral persists essentially unchanged throughout a thick formation of rock, only to be replaced suddenly by a new and different species.
The evolution of North American horses, which was once presented as a classic textbook example of gradual evolution, is now providing equally compelling evidence for punctuated equilibrium.
A convincing 50-million-year sequence of modern horse ancestors    each slightly larger, with more complex teeth, a longer face, and a more prominent central toe    seemed to provide strong support for Darwin  s contention that species evolve gradually.
Horses evolved in discrete steps, each of which persisted almost unchanged for millions of years and was eventually replaced by a distinctive newer model.
The question about the rate of evolution must now be turned around: does evolution ever proceed gradually, or does it always occur in short bursts?
Occasionally, a sequence of fossil-rich layers of rock permits a comprehensive look at one type of organism over a long period of time.
In that study, each of eight different trilobite species was observed to undergo a gradual change in the number of segments    typically an increase of one or two segments over the whole time interval.
Both these devices worked well in sunny climates; but in Northern Europe the sun may be hidden by clouds for weeks at a time, while temperatures vary not only seasonally but from day to night.
And then the new cities and towns, squeezed by their walls, had to know and order time in order to organize collective activity and ration space.
They set a time to go to work, to open the market, to close the market, to leave work, and finally a time to put out fires and got to sleep.
Ironically, the new machine tended to undermine Catholic Church authority.
Although church ritual hand sustained an interest in timekeeping throughout the centuries of urban collapse that followed the fall of Rome, church time was nature  s time.
From the start, however, the towns and cities took equal hours as their standard, and the public clocks installed in town halls and market squares became the very symbol of a new, secular municipal authority.
Every town wanted one; conquerors seized them as especially precious spoils of war; tourists came to see and hear these machines the way they made pilgrimages to sacred relics. 
Eventually the subpopulations become so genetically distinct that they cannot interbreed even if the physical barriers between them were removed.
This route to speciation is known as allopatry (  allo-   means   different  , and   patria   means   homeland  ).
This should not be surprising, since allopatry is pretty common.
For example, during past ice ages, glaciers advanced down through North America and Europe and gradually cut off parts of populations from one another.
About 5 million years ago such geologic movements created the land bridge between North America and South America that we call he Isthmus of Panama.
While previously the gap between the continents had allowed a free flow of water, now the isthmus presented a barrier that divided the Atlantic Ocean from the Pacific Ocean.
This division set the stage for allopatric speciation among populations of fishes and other marine species. 
Graves found that all for Pacific enzymes function better at lower temperatures than the four Atlantic versions of the same enzymes.
This is significant because Pacific seawater is typically 2 to 3 degrees cooler than seawater on the Atlantic side of Isthmus.
Second, it appears that closely related populations of fishes on both sides of the isthmus are starting to genetically diverge from each other.
Because Graves  s study of geographically isolated populations of Isthmus fishes offers a glimpse of the beginning of a process of gradual accumulation of mutations that are neutral or adaptive, divergences here might be evidence of allopatric speciation in process. 
Whereas parents in China tend to see preschools primarily as a way of giving children a good start academically, Japanese parents view them primarily as a way of giving children the opportunity to be members of a group.
Finally, some research suggests that ultimately Head Start graduates show higher academic performance at the end of high school, although the gains are modest. 
Of course, not every program produced all these benefits, and not every child benefited to the same extent.
Savannas typically experience a rather prolonged dry season.
Savannas experience an annual rainfall of between 1,000 and 2,000 millimeters, most of it falling in a five- to eight-month wet season.
Though plenty of rain may fall on a savanna during the year, for at least part of the year little does, creating the drought stress ultimately favoring grasses.
In these areas, rainfall per month exceeds that in the above definition, so other factors must contribute to savanna formation. 
For example, savanna soils, like many rain forest soils, are typically oxisols(dominated by certain oxide minerals) and ultisols(soils containing no calcium carbonate), with a high acidity and notably low concentrations of such minerals as phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, and potassium, while aluminum levels are high.
These soils usually contain large amounts of clay and easily become water-saturated.
Sandy soils are prone to the leaching of nutrients and minerals and so tend to be nutritionally poor.
Many savanna and dry-forest plant species are called pyrophytes, meaning they are adapted in various ways to withstand occasional burning.
Frequent fire is a factor to which rain forest species seem unable to adapt, although ancient charcoal remains from Amazon forest soils dating prior to the arrival of humans suggest that moist forests also occasionally burn.
When burning occurs, it prevents competition among plant species from progressing to the point where some species exclude others, reducing the overall diversity of the ecosystem.
But in experimental areas protected from fire, a few perennial grass species eventually come to dominate, outcompeting all others.
There is generally little doubt that fire is a significant factor in maintaining savanna, certainly in most regions.
A fertile, plowed field is rapidly invaded by a large variety of weeds, whereas a neighboring construction site from which the soil has been compacted or removed to expose a coarse, infertile parent material may remain virtually free of vegetation for many months or even years despite receiving the same input of seeds as the plowed field. 
Pioneer species--- those that occur only in the earliest stages of colonization--- tend to have high rates of invasion because they produce very large numbers of reproductive propagules (seeds, spores, and so on) and because they have an efficient means of dispersal (normally, wind).
Many plants depend on wind for dispersal and produce abundant quantities of small, relatively short-lived seeds to compensate for the fact that wind is not always a reliable means of reaching the appropriate type of habitat.
Alternative strategies have evolved in some plants, such as those that produce fewer but larger seeds that are dispersed to suitable sites by birds or small mammals or those that produce long-lived seeds.
Nearly all the seeds that had germinated from this seed bank were from pioneer species.
Variation in rates of invasion and growth plays an important role in determining patterns of succession, especially secondary succession.
Such species generally grow rapidly and quickly dominate new sites, excluding other species with lower invasion and growth rates.
They generally nest in trees and live in colonies made up of hundreds to thousands of workers.
Aggressive species usually forage in groups and feed mainly on flowers that occur in high-density clumps.
Nonaggressive species feed singly or in small groups and on more widely distributed flowers.
In the displays, pairs of bees faced each other, slowly flew vertically to a height of about three meters, and then grappled each other to the ground.
Many prehistorians believe that farming may have emerged in dependently in several different areas of the world when small communities, driven by increasing population and a decline in available food resources, began to plant seeds in the ground in an effort to guarantee their survival.
The advantage was that crops grown in such areas were not as dependent on rainfall and therefore produced a more reliable harvest.
As time went on, such communities gradually learned how to direct the flow of water to enhance the productive capacity of the land, while the introduction of the iron plow eventually led to the cultivation of heavy soils not previously susceptible to agriculture.
The spread of this river valley agriculture in various parts of Asia and Africa was the decisive factor in the rise of the first civilizations.
The need to oversee the entire process brought about the emergence of an elite that was eventually transformed into a government.
How the first governments took shape in these areas is not certain, but anthropologists studying the evolution of human communities in various parts of the world have discovered that one common stage in the process is the emergence of what are called   big men   within a single village or a collection of villages.
By means of their military prowess, dominant personalities, or political talents, these people gradually emerge as the leaders of that community.
As the communities continue to grow in size and material wealth, the   big men   assume hereditary status, and their allies and family members are transformed into a hereditary monarchy.
In some cases, the physical division within the first cities reflected the strict hierarchical character of the society as a whole, with a royal palace surrounded by an imposing wall and separate from the remainder of the urban population.
In other instances, such as the Indus River Valley, the cities lacked a royal precinct and the ostentatious palaces that marked their contemporaries elsewhere.
Products such as lard, tallow, and cheese quickly spoiled if stored in New Orleans   hot and humid warehouses.
Thus while the value of goods shipped by river to New Orleans continued to increase, the South  s overall share of western trade dropped dramatically.
A sharp rise in demand for grain abroad also encouraged farmers in the Northeast and Midwest to become more commercially oriented.
To settlers accustomed to eastern woodlands, the thousands of square miles of tall grass were an awesome sight.
Indian grass, Canada wild rye, and native big bluestem all grew higher than a person.
By the 1850s McCormick was selling 1,000 reapers a year and could not keep up with demand, while Deere turned out 10,000 plows annually.
The new commercial farming fundamentally altered the Midwestern landscape and the environment.
Native grasses were replaced by a small number of plants cultivated as commodities.
In the absence of these fires, trees reappeared on land not in cultivation and, if undisturbed, eventually formed woodlots.
It was not until the Cambrian period, beginning about 600 million years ago, that a great proliferation of macroscopic species occurred on Earth and produced a fossil record that allows us to track the rise and fall of biodiversity.
Since the Cambrian period, biodiversity has generally risen, but there have been some notable exceptions.
Biodiversity collapsed dramatically during at least five periods because of mass extinctions around the globe.
Collectively, more species went extinct during smaller events that were less dramatic but more frequent.
However, no group or species can maintain its dominance indefinitely, and when, after over 200 million years, the age of dinosaurs came to a dramatic end about 65 million years ago, mammals began to flourish, evolving from relatively few types of small terrestrial animals into the myriad of diverse species, including bats and whales, that we know today.
Overall, about 38 percent of the families of marine animals were lost, with percentages much higher in some groups Ammonoid mollusks went from being very diverse and abundant to being extinct.
An extremely abundant set of planktonic marine animals called foraminifera largely disappeared, although they rebounded later.
The number of flowering plants (angiosperms) was reduced at this time, but they then began to increase dramatically.
It is now widely believed that at least some species of dinosaurs had a metabolic rate high enough for them to be endotherms (animals that maintain a relatively consistent body temperature by generating heat internally).
Nevertheless, climatic explanations for the K-T extinction are not really challenged by the ideas that dinosaurs may have been endothermic, because even endotherms can be affected by a significant change in the climate.
Initially, the meteorite theory was based on a single line of evidence.
At locations around the globe, geologists had found an unusually high concentration of iridium in the layer of sedimentary rocks that was formed about 65 million years ago.
Iridium is an element that is usually uncommon near Earth  s surface, but it is abundant in some meteorites.
The arts of the Islamic book, such as calligraphy and decorative drawing, developed during A.D. 900 to 1500, and luxury books are some of the most characteristic examples of Islamic art produced in this period.
Books became major vehicles for artistic expression, and the artists who produced them, notably calligraphers and painters, enjoyed high status, and their workshops were often sponsored by princes and their courts.
Some of the most luxurious books were specific commissions made at the order of a particular prince and sighed by the calligrapher and decorator. 
Papermaking spread quickly to Egypt---and eventually to Sicily and Spain---but it was several centuries before paper supplanted parchment for copies of the Koran, probably because of the conservative nature of religious art and its practitioners.
At first, paper was made in relatively small sheets that were pasted together, but by the beginning of the fourteenth century, very large sheets---as much as a meter across---were available.
These large sheets meant that calligraphers and artists had more space on which to work.
This in turn allowed the easy transfer of artistic ideas and motifs over great distances, from one medium to another, and in a different scale in ways that had been difficult, if not impossible, in the previous period. 
He standardized the length of alif, the first letter of the Arabic alphabet, and then determined what the size and shape of all other letters should be, based on the alif.
Eventually, six round forms of handwriting, composed of three pairs of big and little scripts known collectively as the Six Pens, became the standard repertory of every calligrapher. 
It served as the primary source of heat for all homes and industries and as a basic raw material.
Mechanical pumps, usually powered by hundreds of horses walking in circles at the surface, had to be installed.
In 1763, Watt was called on to repair a Newcomen engine being used in a physics course.
The steam engine of Watt and his followers was the technological advance that gave people, at least for a whild, unlimited power and allowed the invention and use of all kinds of power equipment.
The British iron industry was radically transformed.
In the 1780s, Henry Cort developed the puddling furnace, which allowed pig iron to be refined in turn with coke.
These plants usually occur where ants are abundant, most in the tropics but some in temperate areas.
Like floral nectar, extrafloral nectar consists mainly of water with a high content of dissolved sugars and, in some plants, small amounts of amino acids.
Nevertheless, most ecologists believe that all extrafloral nectaries attract insects that will defend the plant. 
He called for proof of the protectionist view: that visitations of the ants confer protection on the plants and that in the absence of the protectionist view: that visitations of the ants confer protection on the plants and that in the absence of the insects a much greater number would perish or fail to produce flowers or seeds than when the insects are present.
That we now have an abundance of the proof that was called for was established when Barbara Bentley reviewed the relevant evidence in 1977, and since then many more observations and experiments have provided still further proof that ants benefit plants.
When buds are still small, less than a quarter of an inch long, the sepal nectaries are already present and producing nectar.
Seed beetles are more vulnerable because they are much smaller than grasshoppers.
With the further assumption that these geologic processes were generally no more or less vigorous than they are today, Hutton's examination of sedimentary layers led him to realize that Earth's history must be enormous, that geologic time is an abyss and human history a speck by comparison.
Small nomadic groups could easily supply the necessities for their families.
Such societies likely were largely egalitarian, beyond distinctions based on age and gender: virtually all people had equivalent rights, status, and access to resources.
A diet higher in wild cereals produces proportionally more body fat, leading to higher fertility among women.
In some areas, small changes in climate or minor changes in plant characteristics may have further destabilized local economies.
However, good land may itself be limited    for example, to within the confines of a river valley.
Impinging on the neighbors' territory can lead to conflict, especially when they too are up against the capacity of the land to provide enough food.
This change in the dominant species from season to season is called seasonal succession, and it occurs in a wide variety of locations.
This succession is different from typical terrestrial ecological succession in which various plants replace one another until finally a so-called climax community develops, which persists for many years.
While this factor may also contribute, observations suggest that phytoplankton populations rise and fall much more quickly than nutrient concentrations change.
For any individual organism, the amount of metabolite secreted is small.
But the effect of secretions by all the individuals of the dominant species can be significant both for themselves and for other species.
The B vitamins, especially vitamin B12, thiamine and biotin, seem to be the most generally required.
Many copepods (small, herbivorous crustaceans) and invertebrate larvae pick out selected phytoplankton species from mixed groups, changing the species composition.
A growing body of evidence now suggests that all of the factors considered here are operating simultaneously to produce species succession.
The quantity and total weight of soil flora generally exceed that of soil fauna.
By far the most numerous and smallest of the plants living in soil are bacteria.
A third group of bacteria inhabits the root systems of plants called legumes.
The bacteria that legumes host within their root nodules (small swellings on the root) change nitrogen gas from the atmosphere into nitrogen compounds that plants are able to metabolize, a process, known as nitrogen fixation, that makes the soil more fertile.
These nutrients eventually enrich the surface soil when the tree drops its leaves or when it dies and decomposes.
Finally, trees perform the vital function of slowing water runoff and holding the soil in place with their root systems, thus combating erosion.
The increased erosion that often accompanies agricultural use of sloping land is principally caused by the removal of its protective cover of natural vegetation.
Under exceptionally favorable conditions, up to a million earthworms (with a total body weight exceeding 450 kilograms) may inhabit an acre of soil.
Earthworms ingest large quantities of soil, chemically alter it, and excrete it as organic matter called casts.
In addition, earthworms mix of soil both vertically and horizontally, improving aeration and drainage. 
These animals primarily work the soil mechanically.
During that time Forbes was able to drag this small, triangular dregdge--a tool with a leather net for capturing creatures along the sea bottom--at a hundred locations, at depths ranging from 6 to 1380 feet.
This zero, Forbes casually speculated--he simply extended a line on his graph of animal number versus depth--probably began at a depth of 1,800 feet.
Below that was the final zone in Forbes  s scheme, zone nine, a zone that covered most of the ocean floor and thus most of the solid surface of Earth: Forbes called this the azoic zone, where no animal, to say nothing of plants, could survive. 
This ignored the fact that water is all but incompressible.
The central implication of all these misconceptions was that nothing could live in the abyss (deep), just as Forbes  s observations seemed to indicate.
Although the Aegean had been the birthplace of marine biology, its depths are now known to be exceptionally lacking in animal diversity.
Its opening was so small and the holes in the net so large that the dredge inevitably missed animals.
Originally moths were uniformly pale gray or whitish in color; dark-colored (melanic) individuals were rare and made up less than 2 percent of the population.
Over a period of decades, dark-colored forms became an increasingly large fraction of some populations and eventually came to dominate peppered moth populations in certain areas  especially those of extreme industrialization such as the Ruhr Valley of Germany and the Midlands of England.
Melanics were normally quickly eliminated in nonindustrial areas by adverse selection; birds spotted them easily.
The action of natural selection in producing a small but highly significant step of evolution was seemingly demonstrated, with birds as the selecting force.
He doubted that the world and all its contents could be made of water and proposed instead a formless and unobservable substance he called   apeiron   that was the source of all matter.
Although he did not accept that water was the prime element, he did believe that all life originated in the sea, and he was thus one of the first to conceive of this important idea.
A scientific theory about the universe, however demands much more than the various observations and analogies that were woven together to form systems of reasoning, carefully constructed as they were, that would eventually culminate in Aristotle  s model of the world and the universe.
Without experimentation and objective, critical testing of their theories, the best these thinkers could hope to achieve was some internally consistent speculation that covered all the bases and satisfied the demands of reason. 
In a fragmented landscape where many populations and habitats are isolated from others, translocations can play an effective role in conservation strategies; they can increase the number of existing populations or increase the size, genetic diversity, and demographic balance of a small population, consequently increasing its chances of survival. 
Translocation clearly has a role in the recovery of species that have substantially declined and is the most likely method by which many sedentary species can recover all or part of their former range.
Additionally, translocation of predators or competitors may have negative impacts on other species, resulting in an overall loss of diversity.
Successful translocations inevitably get recorded and gain attention, whereas failures may never be recorded at all.
Although the troops appeared to undergo initial problems, causing them to split up, all the tracked females settled into normal behavioral patterns. 
At the end of the nineteenth century, there were basically two kinds of buildings in the United States.
For example, glass could be used to open up walls and eliminate their stone and brick masonry because large spaces could now be spanned with steel beams.
This often led to effects that looked odd from a traditional standpoint but that became hallmarks of modern architecture for precisely this reason.
For example, in traditional architecture, stone or brick walls served a structural role, but in a steel-beam building the walls were essentially hung from the internal skeleton of steel beams, which meant that walls and corners no longer needed to be solid but could be opened up in unexpected ways.
At the Fagus shoe factory in Germany, for example, German architect Walter Gropius placed glass walls in the corners, effectively breaking open the box of traditional architecture and creating a new sense of light and openness.
Wright  s most dramatic residence, Fallingwater, has balconies that thrust far out over a stream in a way that seems to defy gravity.
The ways in which new technology transformed architectural design are dramatically illustrated through the evolution of the high-rise office building.
But to create usable high-rise buildings, a number of technical challenges needed to be solved.
The light microscope cannot resolve detail finer than 0.2 micrometers, about the size of the smallest bacterium; consequently, no matter how many times its image of such a bacterium is magnified, the light microscope cannot show the details of the cell  s internal structure.
By the mid-1800s, these discoveries led to the cell theory, which states that all living things are composed of cells and that all cells come from other cells. 
In fact, the most powerful modern electron microscopes can distinguish objects as small as 0.2 nanometers, a thousandfold improvement over the light microscope.
However, instead of lenses made of glass, the transmission electron microscope uses electromagnets as lenses, as do all electron microscopes.
One problem with electron microscopes is that they cannot be used to study living specimens because the specimen must be held in a vacuum chamber; that is, all the air and liquid must be removed.
Thus, the light microscope remains a useful tool, especially for studying living cells.
They are found from southern Canada all the way to Panama, as well as on islands near coastal areas.
Despite significant numbers being harvested and having suffered occasional declines, typically because of disease, the raccoon has consistently maintained high population levels.
First, their success has been partially attributed to the growth of cities, as they often thrive in suburban and even urban settings.
Within the United States, they are commonly taken from one area to another, both legally and illegally, to restock hunting areas and, presumably, because people simply want them to be part of their local fauna.
Their appearance and subsequent flourishing in Utah  s Great Salt Lake valley within the last 40 years appears to be from such an introduction.
Raccoons have been able to exploit crops, especially com but also cereal grains, which have become dependable food sources for them.
In the eighteenth century, when the wolfs range included almost all of North America, raccoons apparently were abundant only in the deciduous forests of the East, Gulf Coast, and Great Lakes regions, though they also extended into the wooded bottomlands of the Midwest  s major rivers.
Genes from virtually any organism, from viruses to humans, can now be inserted into plants, creating what are known as transgenic plants.
Most often, these plants either contain a gene making them resistant to the herbicide glyphosate or they contain an insect-resistant gene that produces a protein called Bt toxin.
On the positive side, proponents of transgenic crops argue that these crops are environmentally friendly because they allow farmers to use fewer and less noxious chemicals for crop production.
One question deals with the effects that Bt plants have on nontarget organisms such as beneficial insects, worms, and birds that consume the genetically engineered crop.
For example, monarch caterpillars feeding on milkweed plants near Bt cornfields will eat some corn pollen that has fallen on the milkweed leaves.
However, transgenic Bt plants express the toxin in all tissues throughout growing season.
Therefore, all insects carrying genes that make them susceptible to the toxin will die.
That leaves only the genetically resistant insects alive to perpetuate the population.
These insects may allow Bt susceptibility to remain in the population.
Perhaps the most serious concern about the transgenic crop plants currently in use is that they encourage farmers to move farther away from sustainable agricultural farming practices, meaning ones that allow natural resources to continually regenerate over the long run.
Transgenics, at least superficially, simplify farming by reducing the choices made by the manager.
Planting a glyphosate-resistant crop commits a farmer to using that herbicide for the reason, probably to the exclusion of all other herbicides and other weed-control practices.
They were written on damp clay tablets with a wedged (or V-shaped) stick; since the Latin word for wedge is cunea, the texts are called cuneiform.
The clay tablets usually were not fired; sun drying was probably reckoned enough to preserve the text for as long as it was being used.
Fortunately, however, many tablets survived because they were accidentally fired when the buildings they were stored in burned. 
One tablet records the speed of the Moon over 248 days; another documents an early sighting of Halley  s Cornet, form September 22 to September 28, 164 B.C.E.
The Greeks had a special name for this writing: hiero glyphic, literally   sacred writing.
This, they thought, was language fit for the gods, which explains why it was carved on walls of pyramids and other religious structures.
Egypt gave us the tradition of the scribe not just as educated person but as artist and calligrapher.
It still seems a lot to recall, but what was lost in efficiency was more than made up for in the beauty and richness of the texts.
Manuscripts were compiled with an eye to the overall design.
Now extinct, moa were gigantic wingless birds that stood as much as 10 feet (3 meters) tall and weighed as much as 550 pounds (250 kilograms).
They may have had relatively low reproductive rates; apparently, they usually laid only one egg at a time.
The density of Maori settlements and artifacts increased substantially at the time of the most intensive moa hunting (900 to 600 years ago).
This period was followed by a time of decline in the Maori population and a societal transition to smaller, less numerous settlements.
Finally, the Maori introduced the Polynesian rat and the dog to New Zealand.
For these reasons, it is hard to determine the likelihood that introduced disease organisms were a cause of the decline of moa, but they are potentially significant.
One factor is the direct effect of logging, which often turns a forest into something approximating a huge pile of kindling (wood for burning): the ground in a logged forest may remain covered with branches and treetops, left behind when the valuable trunks are carted away; a dense growth of new vegetation springs up, further increasing the forest  s fuel loads; and the trees logged and removed are of course the biggest and most fire-resistant individuals, leaving behind smaller and more flammable trees.
For a few decades the amount of land burnt annually decreased by 80 percent.
That happy situation began to change in the 1980s, due to the increasing frequency of large forest fires that were essentially impossible to extinguish unless rain and low winds combined to help.
When a fire finally does start in a sapling-choked forest, whether due to lightning or human carelessness or (regrettably often) intentional arson, the dense, tall saplings young trees) may become a ladder that allows the fire to jump into the crowns of the trees.
In an ideal world, the Forest Service would manage and restore the forests, thin them out, and remove the dense understory by cutting or by controlled small fires.
It was the harmonious blending of all of these elements that was to produce the classical culture of Athens.
Entering the polls age, Athens had the traditional institutions of other Greek protodemocratic states: an assembly of adult males, an aristocratic council, and annually elected officials.
The first steps toward change were taken by Solon in 594 B.C., when he broke the aristocracy  s stranglehold on elected offices by establishing wear rather than birth as the basis of office holding, abolishing the economic obligations of ordinary Athenians to the aristocracy, and allowing the assembly (of which all citizens were equal members) to overrule the decisions of local courts in certain cases.
The Peisistratids, as the succession of tyrants were called (after the founder of the dynasty, Peisistratos), strengthened Athenian central administration at the expense of the aristocracy by appointing judges throughout the region, producing Athens' first national coinage, and adding and embellishing festivals that tended to focus attention on Athens rather than on local villages of the surrounding region.
Cleisthenes' principal contribution to the creation of democracy at Athens was to complete the long process of weakening family and dam structures, especially among the aristocrats, and to set in their place locality-based corporations called demes, which became the point of entry for all civic and most religious life in Athens.
The assembly was sovereign in all matters but in practice delegated its power to subordinate bodies such as the council, which prepared the agenda firm for meetings of the assembly, and the courts, which took care of most judicial matters.
The tropics contain many more species overall than an equivalent area at the higher latitudes.
Where conditions are most suitable for plant growth  that is, where temperatures are relatively high and uniform and where there is an ample supply of water-one usually finds large masses of vegetation.
Structure is essentially the architecture of vegetation, and as in the case of some tropical forests, it can be extremely complicated.
There are three dear peaks in leaf cover at heights of approximately 3,6, and 30 meters above the ground; and the very highest layer, at 50 meters, corresponds to the very tall trees that stand free of the main canopy and form an open layer of their own.
So, such a forest contains essentially four layers of canopy.
The complexity of the microclimate is closely related to the complexity of structure in vegetation, and generally speaking, the more complex the structure of vegetation, the more speeds of animal are able to make a living there.
The climates of the higher latitudes are generally less favorable for the accumulation of large quantities of biomass; hence, the structure of vegetation is simpler and the animal diversity is consequently lower.
In contrast to mammals and birds, amphibians are unable to produce thermal energy through their metabolic activity, which would allow them to regulate their body temperature independent of the surrounding or ambient temperature.
Additionally, in many speeds the tolerance boundaries are flexible and can change as a result of acclimatization (long-term exposure to particular conditions).
Hefiothermy is especially common among frogs and toads: it allows them to increase their body temperature by more than 10*C. The Andean toad Bufo spinulosus exposes itself immediately after sunrise on moist ground and attains its preferred body temperature by this means, long before either ground or air is correspondingly warmed.
The effect of thigmothermy is especially evident in the Andean toad during rainfall its body temperature corresponds to the temperature of the warm earth and not to the much cooler air temperature.
The Navajo, a Native American people living in the southwestern United States, live in small scattered settlements.
These are actually made by pouring thin, finely controlled streams of colored sands or pulverized vegetable and mineral substances, pollen, and flowers in precise patterns on the ground.
As relative newcomers to the Southwest, a place where their climate, neighbors, and rulers could be equally inhospitable, the Navajo created these art forms to affect the world around them, not just through the recounting of the actions symbolized, but through the beauty and harmony of the artworks themselves.
The paintings generally illustrate ideas and events from the life of a mythical hero, who, after being healed by the gods, gave gifts of songs and paintings.
As they prepare their materials and weave, Navajo women imitate the transformations that originally created the world.
The answer to the first question is that carbon dioxide is still found in abundance on Earth, but now, instead of being in the form of atmospheric carbon dioxide, it is either dissolved in the oceans or chemically bound into carbonate rocks, such as the limestone and marble that formed in the oceans.
But as the Sun  s energy output slowly increased over time, the temperature at the surface would eventually have risen above 374  C. Above this temperature, no matter what the atmospheric pressure, Venus   oceans would have begun to evaporate, and the added water vapor in the atmosphere would have increased the greenhouse effect.
Temperatures eventually became high enough to "bake out" any carbon dioxide that was trapped in carbonate rocks.
With all the water vapor gone, the greenhouse effect would no longer have accelerated.
Bartering was a basic trade mechanism for many thousands of years; often sporadic and usually based on notions of reciprocity, it involved the mutual exchange of commodities or objects between individuals or groups.
As agricultural economies became more diversified and local food supplies could be purchased both locally and over longer distances, a far-reaching economic interdependence resulted.
Eventually, this led to redistribution systems for luxuries and basic commodities, systems that were organized and controlled by Minoan rulers from their palaces.
For example, he argued that the introduction of domesticated vines and olives allowed a substantial expansion of land under cultivation and helped to power the emergence of complex society.
All these could be obtained from the nearby highlands, from the Valley of Mexico, and from other regions, if the necessary trading networks came into being.
Biologist Ernst Mayr defined a species as "an actually or potentially interbreeding population that does not interbreed with other such populations when there is opportunity to do so."
A key event in the origin of many species is the separation of a population with its gene pool (all of the genes in a population at any one time) from other populations of the same species, thereby preventing population interbreeding.
This mode of evolving new species is called allopatric speciation.
Many factors can isolate a population geographically.
A mountain range may emerge and gradually split a population of organisms that can inhabit only lowland lakes; certain fish populations might become isolated in this way.
Similarly, a creeping glacier may gradually divide a population, or a land bridge such as the Isthmus of Panama may form and separate the marine life in the ocean waters on either side.
In contrast, small rodents may find a deep canyon or a wide river an effective barrier.
Smaller, with a shorter tail that is white underneath, the white-tailed antelope squirrel inhabits deserts north of the canyon and west of the Colorado River in southern California.
The likelihood of allopatric speciation increases when a population is small as well as isolated, making it more likely than a large population to have its gene pool changed substantially.
For example, in less than two million years, small populations of stray animals and plants from the South American mainland that managed to colonize the Galapagos Islands gave rise to all the species that now inhabit the islands.
When oceanic islands are far enough apart to permit populations to evolve in isolation, but dose enough to allow occasional dispersions to occur, they are effectively outdoor laboratories of evolution.
Each island was bom from underwater volcanoes and was gradually covered by organisms derived from strays that rode the ocean currents and winds from other islands and continents.
For instance, the Galapagos island chain has a total of thirteen species of closely related birds called Galapagos finches.
Accumulated evidence indicates that all thirteen finch species evolved from a single small population of ancestral birds that colonized one of the islands.
Dinosaurs rapidly became extinct about 65 million years ago as part of a mass extinction known as the K-T event, because it is associated with a geological signature known as the K-T boundary, usually a thin band of sedimentation found in various parts of the world (K is the traditional abbreviation for the Cretaceous, derived from the German name Kreideieit).
Others have blamed extinction on competition from the mammals, which allegedly ate all the dinosaur eggs-except that mammals and dinosaurs appeared at the same time in the Late Triassic, about 190 million years ago, and there is no reason to believe that mammals suddenly acquired a taste for dinosaur eggs after 120 million years of coexistence.
Some explanations (such as the one stating that dinosaurs all died of diseases) fail because there is no way to scientifically test them, and they cannot move beyond the realm of speculation and guesswork.
These included a variety of clams and snails, and especially the ammonites, a group of shelled squidlike creatures that dominated the Mesozoic seas and had survived many previous mass extinctions.
Callisto, the outermost of Jupiter's four largest satellites, orbits the planet in seventeen days at a distance from Jupiter of two million kilometers.
Like our own Moon, Callisto rotates in the same period as it revolves, so it always keeps the same face toward Jupiter.
Callisto has a diameter of 4,820 kilometers, almost the same as that of Mercury.
This tells us that Callisto has far less of the rocky metallic materials found in the inner planets and must instead be an icy body through much of its interior.
Callisto has not fully differentiated, meaning separated into layers of different density materials.
This fact surprised scientists, who expected that all the big icy moons would be differentiated It is much easier for an icy body to differentiate than for a rocky one, since the melting temperature of ice is so low.
Only a little heating will soften the ice and get the process started, allowing the rock and metal to sink to the center and the slushy ice to float to the surface.
Yet Callisto seems to have frozen solid before the process of differentiation was complete.
Like our Moon  s highlands, the surface of Callisto is covered with impact craters.
Ice on Callisto does not deform or flow like ice in glaciers on Earth.
Callisto is unique among the planet-sized objects of the solar system in its absence of interior forces to drive geological evolution.
The satellite was bom dead and has remained geologically dead for more than four billion years.
Ganymede, another of Jupiter's satellites and the largest in our solar system, is also cratered, but less so than Callisto.
In addition, the Galileo spacecraft discovered that Ganymede has a magnetic field, the signature of a partially molten interior.
Extensive mountain ranges were formed from compression of the crust, forming long ridges with parallel valleys spaced one to two kilometers apart.
Why is Ganymede different from Callisto?
Possibly the small difference in size and internal heating between the two led to this divergence in their evolution.
Ganymede is close enough to Jupiter that tidal forces from the giant planet may have episodically heated its interior and triggered major convulsions on its crust.
Towns and cities were established not only as garrisons (military posts) but as centers for the diffusion of Greek language, literature, and thought, particularly through libraries, as at Antioch (in modern Turkey) and the most famous of all, at Alexandria in Egypt, which would be the finest in the world for the next thousand years.
Most city-states had been quite small in terms of citizenry, and this was considered to be a good thing.
In decision making, the whole body of citizens together would have the necessary knowledge in order generally to reach the right decision, even though the individual might not be particularly qualified to decide.
This implied that the city-state was based on the idea that citizens were not specialists but had multiple interests and talents    each a so-called jack-of-all-trades who could engage in many areas of life and politics.
But with the development of trade and commerce in Alexander  s empire came the growth of cities; it was no longer possible to be a jack-of-all-trades.
The city-state was simply too "small-time."
Petroleum is defined as a gaseous, liquid, and semisolid naturally occurring substance that consists chiefly of hydrocarbons (chemical compounds of carbon and hydrogen).
Most of the petroleum that forms in sediments does not find a suitable trap and eventually makes its way, along with groundwater, to the surface of the sea.
It is estimated that no more than 0.1 percent of all the organic matter originally buried in a sediment is eventually trapped in an oil pool.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the highest ratio of oil and gas pools to volume of sediment is found in rock no older than 2.5 million years  young enough so that little of the petroleum has leaked away  and that nearly 60 percent of all oil and gas discovered so far has been found in strata that formed in the last 65 million years This does not mean that older rocks produced less petroleum; it simply means that oil in older rocks has had a longer time in which to leak away.
Using this approach and considering all the sedimentary basins of the world, experts estimate that somewhere between 1,500 and 3,000 billion barrels of oil will eventually be discovered.
When the current approaches the equator, the westward-flowing trade winds cause nutrient-rich cold water along the coast to rise from deeper depths to more shallow ones.
Fishing, especially for anchovies, is a major local industry.
Every year during the months of December and January, a weak, warm countercurrent replaces the normally cold coastal waters.
In fact, this is the time of year they traditionally set aside to tend to their equipment and await the return of cold water.
While the warm-water countercurrent usually lasts for two months or less, there are occasions when the disruption to the normal flow lasts for many months.
Over the last few decades, the term El  Nifio has come to be used to describe these exceptionally strong episodes and not the annual event.
The processes that interact to produce an El  Nifio involve conditions all across the Pacific, not just in the waters off South America.
He noted that a rise in atmospheric pressure in the eastern Pacific is usually accompanied by a fall in pressure in the western Pacific and vice versa.
He called this seesaw pattern the Southern Oscillation.
However, in other years the Southern Oscillation, for unknown reasons, swings in the opposite direction, dramatically changing the usual conditions described above, with pressure increasing in the western.
Scientists try to document as many past El Nino events as possible by piecing together bits of historical evidence, such as sea-surface temperature records, daily observations of atmospheric pressure and rainfall, fisheries   records from South America, and the writings of Spanish colonists dating back to the fifteenth century.
The 1997-1998 El  Nifio brought copious and damaging rainfall to the southern United States, from California to Florida.
However, by the Devonian Period (408 million to 362 million years ago), they had radiated into almost all available aquatic habitats, including freshwater settings.
One of the groups whose fossils are especially common in rocks deposited in fresh water is the lobe-finned fish.
If there were periods of drought, any adaptations allowing the fish to survive the dry conditions would have been advantageous.
They could have been used as feeble locomotor devices on land, perhaps good enough to allow a fish to flop its way from one pool of water that was almost dry to an adjacent pond that had enough water and oxygen for survival.
These fins eventually changed into short, stubby legs.
What ecological pressures might have caused fishes to gradually abandon their watery habitat and become increasingly land-dwelling creatures?
The precursor of the modern camera, the camera obscura is a darkened enclosure into which light is admitted through a lens in a small hole.
For the artist, this technique allows forms and linear perspective to be drawn precisely as they would be seen from a single viewpoint.
The map hung on the opposite wall was a real map in Vermeers possession, reproduced in such faithful detail that some kind of tracery is suspected.
In recent times the British artist David Hockney has published his investigations into the secret use of the camera obscura, claiming that for up to 400 years, many of Western art  s great masters probably used the device to produce almost photographically realistic details in their paintings.
In experimenting with it, he found that it is actually quite difficult to use for drawing, and he speculates that the artists probably combined their observations from life with tracing of shapes.
Many areas of the shallow sea bottom are covered with a lush growth of aquatic flowering plants adapted to live submerged in seawater.
These plants are collectively called seagrasses.
Since most seagrass systems are depositional environments, they eventually accumulate organic material that leads to the creation of fine-grained sediments with a much higher organic content than that of the surrounding unvegetated areas.
During the peak of the last ice age, northeast Asia (Siberia) and Alaska were connected by a broad land mass called the Bering Land Bridge.
It is through Beringia that small groups of large mammal hunters, slowly expanding their hunting territories, eventually colonized North and South America.
On this archaeologists generally agree, but that is where the agreement stops One broad area of disagreement in explaining the peopling of the Americas is the domain of paleoecologists, but it is critical to understanding human history: what was Beringia like?
Broad, windswept valleys; glaciated mountains; sparse vegetation; and less moisture created a rather forbidding land mass.
Further, nearly all of the ice-age fauna had teeth that indicate an adaptation to grasses and sedges; they could not have been supported by a modern flora of mosses and lichens.
Guthrie has also demonstrated that the landscape must have been subject to intense and continuous winds, especially in winter.
The first was the discovery of a 1,000-square-kilometer preserved patch of Beringian vegetation dating to just over 17,000 years ago  the peak of the last ice age The plants were preserved under a thick ash fall from a volcanic eruption.
Pollen, a powdery substance, which is produced by flowering plants and contains male reproductive cells, is usually carried from plant to plant by insects or birds, but some plants rely on the wind to carry their pollen.
Wind pollination is often seen as being primitive and wasteful in costly pollen and yet it is surprisingly common, especially in higher latitudes.
Even tall trees in the tropics are usually not wind pollinated despite being in windy conditions.
These are at best a waste and at worst an impediment to the transfer of pollen in the air The result is insignificant-looking flowers and catkins (dense cylindrical clusters of small, petalless flowers).
Most deciduous wind-pollinated trees (which shed their leaves every fall) produce their pollen in the spring while the branches are bare of leaves to reduce the surrounding surfaces that   compete" with the stigmas (the part of the flower that receives the pollen) for pollen.
Since all this pollen is floating around in the air, it is no wonder that wind-pollinated trees are a major source of allergies.
Windbome pollen is dry, rounded, smooth, and generally smaller than that of insect-pollinated plants.
Small grains may be blown farther but they are also more prone to be whisked past the waiting stigma because smaller particles tend to stay trapped in the fast-moving air that flows around the stigma.
In the near-surface layers, there are many large, fast carnivores as well as an immense variety of planktonic animals, which feed on plankton (small, free-floating plants or animals) by filtering them from currents of water that pass through a specialized anatomical structure These filter-feeders thrive in the well-illuminated surface waters because oceans have so many very small organisms, from bacteria to large algae to larval crustaceans.
These small fishes use their gill filaments to strain out the algae that dominate such areas.
At a much larger scale, baleen whales and whale sharks are also efficient filter-feeders in productive coastal or polar waters, although their filtered particles comprise small animals such as copepods and krill rather than phytoplankton.
Filtering seawater for its particulate nutritional content can be an energetically demanding method of feeding, particularly when the current of water to be filtered has to be generated by the organism itself, as is the case for all planktonic animals.
Many of the groups of animals that typify the filter-feeding lifestyle in shallow water have deep-sea representatives that have become predatory.
Their filtering systems, which reach such a high degree of development in shallow- water species, are greatly reduced.
Another consequence of the limited availability of prey is that many animals have developed ways of coping with much larger food particles, relative to their own body size, than the equivalent shallower species can process.
Very large or long teeth provide almost no room for cutting the prey into a convenient size for swallowing, the fish must gulp the prey down whole.
Excavators have unearthed clay tablets in all these lands.
In the Near East they remained in use for more than two and a half millennia, and in certain areas they lasted down to the beginning of the common era until finally yielding, once and for all, to more convenient alternatives.
This script consists of simple shapes, basically just wedge shapes and lines that could easily be incised in soft clay with a reed or wooden stylus; scholars have dubbed it cuneiform from the wedge-shaped marks (cunei in Latin) that are its hallmark Although the ingredients are merely wedges and lines, there are hundreds of combinations of these basic forms that stand for different sounds or words.
Learning these complex signs required long training and much practice; inevitably, literacy was largely limited to a small professional class, the scribes.
The literature of the Sumerians was treasured throughout the Near East, and long after Sumerian ceased to be spoken, the Babylonians and Assyrians and others kept it alive as a literary language, the way Europeans kept Latin alive after the fall of Rome.
Business procedures changed radically.
The individual traveling merchant who alone handled virtually all aspects of exchange evolved into an operation invoh/ing three separate types of merchants: the sedentary merchant who ran the "home office," financing and organizing the firm  s entire export-import trade; the carriers who transported goods by land and sea; and the company agents resident in cities abroad who, on the advice of the home office, looked after sales and procurements.
Tolls on roads became high enough to finance what has been called a road revolution, involving new surfaces and bridges, new passes through the Alps, and new inns and hospices for travelers.
At cities such as Bruges and London, Hanseatic merchants secured special trading concessions, exempting them from all tolls and allowing them to trade at local fairs.
Hanseatic merchants established foreign trading centers, the most famous of which was the London Steelyard, a walled community with warehouses, offices, a church, and residential quarters for company representatives.
These developments added up to what one modern scholar has called "a commercial revolution."
One remarkable aspect of this change was that the commercial classes constituted a small part of the total population  never more than 10 percent.
In the years to come, alliances with the middle classes were to enable kings to weaken aristocratic interests and build the states that came to be called modern.
Most towns remained small.
In fact, it is possible that the loss of a single important species could start a cascade of extinctions that might dramatically change an entire ecosystem.
A good illustration of this occurred after sea otters were eliminated from some Pacific kelp (seaweed) bed ecosystems: the kelp beds were practically obliterated too because in the absence of sea otter predation, sea urchin populations exploded and consumed most of the kelp and other macroalgae.
It is usually claimed that species-rich ecosystems tend to be more stable than species-poor ecosystems.
Mass-produced goods were accompanied by fewer more aesthetically impressive objects such as statuettes.
In the most extreme instances, natives literally bought the whole package of Roman culture.
A visitor from Rome would have recognized its owner as a participant in the contemporary culture of the empire, not at all provincial in taste.
Local workshops did develop and stylistically similar groups of sculpture show how skills in this new medium became widerspread.
Likewise skills in the use of mosaic, wall painting, ceramic decoration, and metal-working developed throughout the province with the eventual emergence of characteristically Romano-British styles.
On occasion large groups amassed for war or religious festivals, but society remained centered on small communities.
This was an architecture of dominance in which subject peoples were literally made to feel small by buildings that epitomized imperial power.
The worker and soldier castes of social ants, bees, and wasps consist of only females, all daughters of a single queen that mated soon after she matured and thereafter never mated again.
Since termites are small and soft-bodied, they easily become desiccated and must live in moist places with a high relative humidity.
Among the most architecturally advanced of these termites is an African species, Macroternes natalensis.
Renowned Swiss entomologist Martin Luscher described the mounds of this fungus-growing species as being as much as 16 feet tall, 16 feet in diameter at their base, and with a cement-like wall of soil mixed with termite saliva that is from 16 to 23 inches thick.
The thick and dense wall of the mound insulates the interior microclimate from the variations in humidity and temperature of the outside atmosphere.
Several narrow and relatively thin-walled ridges on the outside of the mound extend from near its base almost to its top.
How can so much oxygen diffuse through the thick walls of the mound?
Even the pores in the wall are filled with water, which almost stops the diffusion of gases.
The interior consists of a large central core in which the fungus is grown, below it is   cellar   of empty space, above it is an   attic   of empty space, and within the ridges on the outer wall of the nest, there are many small tunnels that connect the cellar and the attic.
Gases, mainly oxygen coming in and carbon dioxide going out, easily diffuse into or out of the ridges, since their walls are thin and their surface area is large because they protrude far our from the wall of the mound.
An important environment that is more or less totally restricted to the intertropical zone is the coral reef.
Some atolls are very large  Kwajelein in the Marshall Islands of the South Pacific is 120 kilometers long and as much as 24 kilometers across-but most are very much smaller, and rise only a few meters above the water.
Between the fringing reef and the land there is sometimes a small channel or lagoon.
When the lagoon is wide and deep and the reef lies at some distance from the shore and rises from deep water it is called a barrier reef.
Darwin s theory was therefore proved basically correct.
There are some submarine islands called guyots and seamounts, in which subsidence associated with sea-floor spreading has been too speedy for coral growth to keep up.
Indeed, they have been called the marine version of the tropical rain forest, rivaling their terrestrial counterparts in both richness of species and biological productivity.
Increases in population have usually been accompanied (indeed facilitated) by an increase in trade.
In the Western experience, commerce provided the conditions that allowed industrialization to get started, which in turn led to growth in science, technology, industry, transport, communications, social change, and the like that we group under the broad term of   development.
Control of disease, like the checking of smallpox by variolation may have been important.
Productivity in agriculture was also improved by capital investments, first of all in irrigation.
Traditionally, this information has been derived from direct evidence, such as stomach contents, and indirect evidence, such as establishing a correlation between particular body characteristics and diets of living animals and then inferring habits for dinosaurs. 
Animals such as house cats and dogs have large, stabbing canine teeth at the front of the mouth and smaller, equally sharp teeth farther back in their jaws.
The jaw joint of carnivores such as dogs and cats has the mechanical advantage of being at the same level as the tooth row, allowing the jaws to close with tremendous speed and forcing the upper teeth to occlude against the lower teeth with great precision.
The jaw joints of many advanced herbivores, such as cows, lie at a different level than the tooth row, allowing transverse tearing, shredding, and compression of plant material.
Stomach contents are only rarely preserved, but when present, allow us to determine exactly what these animals were eating.
In the stomach contents of specimens of Coelophysis (a small, long-necked dinosaur) are bones from juvenile animals of the same species.
At one time, these were thought to represent embryonic animals, suggesting that this small dinosaur gave birth to live young rather than laying eggs.
Further research indicated that the small dinosaurs were too large and too well developed to be prehatchling young.
In a few rare cases, most of them   mummies   (unusually well preserved specimens), fossilized plant remains have been found inside the body cavity of hadrosaurs.
For more than a hundred years, it has been known that cities are generally warmer than surrounding rural areas.
However, before we look at its influence, let  s see how the heat island actually forms.
Hence, during warm daylight hours, less evaporative cooling in cities allows surface temperatures to rise higher than in rural areas.
Depending on the location, time of year, and time of day, any or all of the following differences between cities and their surroundings can be important: albedo (reflectivity of the surface), surface roughness, emissions of heat, emissions of moisture, and emissions of particles that affect net radiation and the growth of cloud droplets.
The release of heat energy is retarded by the tall vertical city walls that do not allow infrared radiation to escape as readily as does the relatively level surface of the surrounding countryside.
Overall, the heat island is strongest (1) at night when compensating sunlight is absent; (2) during the winter, when nights are longer and there is more heat generated in the city; and (3) when the region is dominated by a high-pressure area with light winds, clear skies, and less humid air.
Studies suggest that precipitation may be greater in cities than in the surrounding countryside; this phenomenon may be due in part to the increased roughness of city terrain, brought on by large structures that cause surface air to slow and gradually converge.
On clear still nights when the heat island is pronounced, a small thermal low-pressure area forms over the city.
Sometimes a light breeze  called a country breeze  blows from the countryside into the city.
Such an event is especially probable if vertical mixing and dispersion of pollutants are inhibited.
The expansion and contraction of the continental glaciers caused huge and uneven rises and falls in sea levels worldwide.
Falls in sea level often exposed a number of important land bridges, such as those linking Alaska to northeast Asia and Britain to northwest Europe, a phenomenon with far reaching effects not only on human colonization of the globe but also on the environment as a whole-the flora and fauna of isolated or insular areas were radically and often irreversibly affected.
Between Alaska and Asia today lies the Bering Strait, which is so shallow that a fall in sea level of only four meters would turn it into a land bridge.
When the ice sheets were at their greatest extent some 18,000 years ago (the glacier maximum), it is thought that the fall was about 120 meters, which therefore created not merely a bridge but a vast plain, 1,000 kilometers from the north to the south, which has been called Beringia.
The assessment of past rises and falls in sea level requires study of submerged land surfaces off the coast and of raised of elevated beaches on land.
Raised beaches are remnants of former coastlines at higher levels relative to the present shoreline and visible, for instance, along the Californian coast north of San Francisco, the height of a raised beach above the present shoreline, however, does not generally give a straightforward indication of the height of a former sea level.
As Gutenberg, apart from getting the key idea, had to solve a lot of practical problems, including imposing paper and ink into the process and the actual printing itself, for which he adapted the screw press used by winemakers, it is amazing that his first product does not look at all rudimentary.
Europe in the fifteenth century was a place where intermediate technology-that is, workshops with skilled craftspeople-was well established and spreading fast, especially in Germany and Italy.
Presses sprang up in several German cities, and by 1470, Nuremberg, Germany had established itself as the center of the international publishing trade, printing books from 24 presses and distributing them at trade fairs all over western and central Europe.
The breakthrough came in Great Britain, where several economic advantages created a climate especially favorable to the encouraged of new technology.
Internally, Britain was endowed with easily navigable natural waterway, which helped its trade and communication with the world.
Eventually they found their way to the cities or mining communities and provided the human power upon which the Industrial Revolution was built.
Ideas about agricultural reform developed first in Holland, where as early as the mid-seventeenth century, such modern methods as crop rotation, heavy fertilization, and diversification were all in use.
In the sixteenth century enclosures were usually used for creating sheep pastures, but by the eighteenth century new farming techniques made it advantageous for large landowners to seek enclosures in order to improve agricultural production.
As a result, many small, independent farmers were forced to sell out simply because they could not compete.
