In lowland country almost any spot on the ground may overlie what was once the bed of a river that has since become buried by soil; if they are now below the water  s upper surface (the water table), the gravels and sands of the former riverbed, and its sandbars, will be saturated with groundwater. 
This unprecedented development of a finite groundwater resource with an almost negligible natural recharge rate  that is, virtually no natural water source to replenish the water supply  has caused water tables in the region to fall drastically.
Even if this process proves successful, however, it would almost triple water costs.
Where the forest inhibits the growth of grass and other meadow plants, the black-tailed deer browses on huckleberry, salal, dogwood, and almost any other shrub or herb.
The early explorers and settlers told of abundant deer in the early 1800s and yet almost in the same breath bemoaned the lack of this succulent game animal.
Although this rise of oil is almost always carefully controlled today, spouts of oil, or gushers, were common in the past.
More than one-quarter of the world  s oil and almost one-fifth of the world  s natural gas come from offshore, even though offshore drilling is six to seven times more expensive than drilling on land.
Certainly, in trying to explain the Roman phenomenon, one would have to place great emphasis on this almost instinct for the territorial imperative.
At seven sites he found that 57 percent of the flakes were right-oriented, and 43 percent left, a pattern almost identical to that produced today.
Like almost all daily cycles of animals deprived of environmental cues, those measured for the horseshoe crabs in these conditions were not exactly 24 hours.
Advertisements for breakfast cereals have, for many years, been found to be especially fond of fantasy techniques, with almost nine out of ten including such content.
A leatherback may be able to pick up some body heat by basking at the surface; its dark, almost black body color may help it to absorb solar radiation.
The ecology of the region also permitted armed predators to prowl the surrounding barrens, which were almost impossible for a state to control.
It exported 80 percent of its butter, almost all to Great Britain, where it accounted for 40 percent of British butter imports.
It is almost certainly doing something significant in adults as well as in fetuses.
Clements and other early ecologists saw almost lawlike regularity in the order of succession, but that has not been substantiated.
Heat islands develop best under particular conditions associated with light winds, but they can form almost any time.
With much of the built-up landscape impenetrable by water, even gentle rain runs off almost immediately from rooftops, streets, and parking lots.
Land reclamation continued, and between 1590 and 1665, almost 100,000 hectares were reclaimed from the wetland areas of Holland, Zeeland, and Friesland.
This in itself is an almost incomprehensible span of generations, and one that makes Australia  s rock art the oldest continuous art tradition in the world.
Few of the cultural traditions and rules that today allow us to deal with dense populations existed for these people accustomed to household autonomy and the ability to move around the landscape almost at will.
Sharing and cooperation were almost certainly part of early Puebloan life, even for people living in largely independent single-household residences scattered across the landscape.
At greater depths within Earth, the pressure of the overlying rock causes pores and cracks to close, reducing the space that pore water can occupy, and almost complete closure occurs at a depth of about 10 kilometers.
Unfortunately, it is in the nature of the archaeological evidence, which is almost invariably only a sample of what once existed, that such figures will always be elusive.
They revealed output powers ranging from about 1 horsepower to perhaps 60 for the largest wheels and confirmed that for maximum efficiency, the water should pass across the blades as smoothly as possible and fall away with minimum speed, having given up almost all of its kinetic energy.
Horses evolved in discrete steps, each of which persisted almost unchanged for millions of years and was eventually replaced by a distinctive newer model.
If evolution had been a continuous, gradual process, one might expect that almost every fossil specimen would be slightly different from every other. 
In the eighteenth century, when the wolfs range included almost all of North America, raccoons apparently were abundant only in the deciduous forests of the East, Gulf Coast, and Great Lakes regions, though they also extended into the wooded bottomlands of the Midwest  s major rivers.
Callisto has a diameter of 4,820 kilometers, almost the same as that of Mercury.
However, by the Devonian Period (408 million to 362 million years ago), they had radiated into almost all available aquatic habitats, including freshwater settings.
They could have been used as feeble locomotor devices on land, perhaps good enough to allow a fish to flop its way from one pool of water that was almost dry to an adjacent pond that had enough water and oxygen for survival.
In recent times the British artist David Hockney has published his investigations into the secret use of the camera obscura, claiming that for up to 400 years, many of Western art  s great masters probably used the device to produce almost photographically realistic details in their paintings.
Very large or long teeth provide almost no room for cutting the prey into a convenient size for swallowing, the fish must gulp the prey down whole.
The slow but steady transformation of European society from almost completely rural and isolated to relatively more urban constituted the greatest effect of the commercial revolution that began in the eleventh century.
Several narrow and relatively thin-walled ridges on the outside of the mound extend from near its base almost to its top.
Even the pores in the wall are filled with water, which almost stops the diffusion of gases.
Coral reefs have fascinated scientists for almost 200 years, and some of the most pertinent observations of them were made in the 1830s by Charles Darwin on the voyage of the Beagle.
Among these is the almost complete internal peace maintained under Manchu rule during the eighteenth century.
From 1400 to 1900 the total of irrigated land seems to have increased almost three times.
In the early Middle Ages, Europe imported an industrial process from China, which turned almost any kind of fibrous material into pulp that was then spread in sheets.
Europe  s economic institutions, particularly those in England, were strong, had wealth available for new investment, and seemed almost to be waiting for some technological breakthrough that would expand their profit-making potential even more.
