During the dry periods that are common phenomena along the desert margins, though, the pressure on the land is often far in excess of its diminished capacity, and desertification results. 
The other species, the Columbian white-tailed deer, in earlier times was common in the open prairie country; it is now restricted to the low, marshy islands and flood plains along the lower Columbia River. 
Moreover, getting petroleum out of the ground and from under the sea and to the consumer can create environmental problems anywhere along the line.
During a geologically brief 100-million-year period, all modern animal groups (along with other animals that are now extinct) evolved.
In some industrial regions, heavily laden wagons, with flanged wheels, were being hauled by horses along metal rails; and the stationary steam engine was puffing in the factory and mine.
Were they salt domes such as are common along the United States Gulf Coast, and if so, why should there have been so much solid crystalline salt beneath the floor of the Mediterranean? 
While the Greek world had expanded along the Mediterranean seas lanes, the Roman world was assembled by territorial conquest.
It seems likely that Teotihuac  n  s natural resources, along with the city elite  s ability to recognize their potential, gave the city a competitive edge over its neighbors.
Support is growing for the alternative theory that people using watercraft, possibly skin boats, moved southward from Beringia along the Gulf of Alaska and then southward along the Northwest coast of North America possibly as early as 16,000 years ago.
This would have created a barrier of ice extending from the Alaska Peninsula, through the Gulf of Alaska and southward along the Northwest Coast of north America to what is today the state of Washington. 
He theorized that with the use of watercraft, people gradually colonized unglaciated refuges and areas along the continental shelf exposed by the lower sea level.
Fladmark  s hypothesis received additional support form from the fact that the greatest diversity in native American languages occurs along the west coast of the Americas, suggesting that this region has been settled the longest. 
Research now indicates that sizable areas of southeastern Alaska along the inner continental shelf were not covered by ice toward the end of the last Ice Age.
Vast areas along the coast may have been deglaciated beginning around 16,000 years ago, possibly providing a coastal corridor for the movement of plants, animals, and humans sometime between 13,000 and 14,000 years ago. 
Fladmark and other believe that the first human colonization of America occurred by boat along the Northwest Coast during the very late Ice Age, possibly as early as 14,000 years ago.
The most recent geologic evidence indicates that it may have been possible for people to colonize ice-free regions along the continental shelf that were still exposed by the lower sea level between13,000 and 14,000 years ago.
In many instances, spectators in the era before recorded sound experienced elaborate aural presentations alongside movies' visual images, from the Japanese benshi (narrators) crafting multivoiced dialogue narratives to original musical compositions performed by symphony-size orchestras in Europe and the United States.
To date, several such secondary craters have been found along Mexico  s Yucatan Peninsula, and heat-shocked quartz has been found both in Mexico and in Haiti.
A location called Chicxulub, along the Yucatan coast, has been suggested as the primary impact site.
Other dimensions along which the two groups differ markedly are density and composition.
As an example, plants make chemicals toxic to fungal and bacterial parasites, along with ones toxic to predatory animals (sometimes they are the same chemicals).
This, along with other policy shifts toward free trade, resulted in a significant increase in traffic through the Sound and in the port of Copenhagen.
The key factor in the success of these countries (along with high literacy, which contributed to it) was their ability to adapt to the international division of labor determined by the early industrializers and to stake out areas of specialization in international markets for which they were especially well suited.
Once a channel has been formed, it is usually used by several lightning discharges, each of them consisting of a stream of electrons from the cloud meeting a stream of positive particles along the established path.
These roads made possible a reduction in transportation costs and thus stimulated the commercialization of agriculture along their routes.
At the end of the Ice Age, no more than a few thousand foragers lived along the eastern Mediterranean coast, in the Jordan and Euphrates valleys.
About 9000 B.C., most human settlements lay in the area along the Mediterranean coast and in the Zagros Mountains of Iran and their foothills.
The water is usually naturally occurring groundwater that seeps down along fractures in the rock; less typically, the water is artificially introduced by being pumped down from the surface.
It is the dominant native species of the lower salt marshes along these coasts, where it grows in the intertidal zone (the area covered by water some parts of the day and exposed others).
Leaving its insect predators behind, the cordgrass has been spreading slowly and steadily along Washington  s tidal estuaries on the west coast, crowding out the native plants and drastically altering the landscape by trapping sediment.
However, because the ocean basins really are short-lived features on geologic times scales, reconstructing the world  s geography by backtracking along the hot-spot trail works only for the last 5 percent or so of geologic time.
If the water table intersects the land surface, groundwater will flow out onto the surface at springs, either to be collected there or to subsequently flow farther along a drainage.
This was a landscape where antelope of all kinds abounded  along with Bos primigenius, a kind of oxen that has become extinct.
It was found that when a white-tailed buck makes a rub, it moves both antlers and forehead glands along the small tree in a vertical direction.
Scrapes are usually placed in open or conspicuous places, such as along a deer trail.
The change separated populations of insects now living along opposite shore, completely cutting off gene flow between them.
Provincial police began to appear, along with district officers and cattle registration and land deeds and registration for compulsory military service.
The real breakthrough took place when farmers began to cultivate crops along the floodplains of river systems.
Farmers along the tracks began to specialize in corps that they could market in distant locations.
Because eastern plows could not penetrate the densely tangled roots of prairie grass, the earliest settlers erected farms along the boundary separating the forest from the prairie.
Prairie farmers also introduced new crops that were not part of the earlier ecological system, notably wheat, along with fruits and vegetables.
Rounded styles of Arabic handwriting had long been used for correspondence and documents alongside the formal angular scripts used for inscriptions and manuscripts of the Koran.
During that time Forbes was able to drag this small, triangular dregdge--a tool with a leather net for capturing creatures along the sea bottom--at a hundred locations, at depths ranging from 6 to 1380 feet.
Prior to Europeans settling and farming the Great Plains Region, raccoons probably were just found along its rivers and streams and in the wooded areas of its southeastern section.
Intricate market networks channeled supplies along well-defined routes.
This material, along with the smoke from the fires, shrouded Earth, creating a form of nuclear winter.
Sampling on the continental shelves and along the base of the continental slopes has shown that fine muds beneath the seafloor contain up to 8 percent organic matter.
Most of the petroleum that forms in sediments does not find a suitable trap and eventually makes its way, along with groundwater, to the surface of the sea.
The cold Humboldt Current of the Pacific Ocean flows toward the equator along the coasts of Ecuador and Peru in South America.
When the current approaches the equator, the westward-flowing trade winds cause nutrient-rich cold water along the coast to rise from deeper depths to more shallow ones.
In these situations, water temperatures are raised not just along the coast, but for thousands of kilometers offshore.
Across regular, well- defined trade routes along the Baltic and North seas, the ships of league cities carried furs, wax, copper, fish, grain, timber, and wine.
After the Roman Empire  s conquest of Britain in the first century A.D., the presence of administrators, merchants, and troops on British soil, along with the natural flow of ideas and goods from the rest of the empire, had an enormous influence on life in the British Isles.
If there are major industrial areas along the outskirts, pollutants are carried into the heat of town, where they tend to concentrate.
Raised beaches are remnants of former coastlines at higher levels relative to the present shoreline and visible, for instance, along the Californian coast north of San Francisco, the height of a raised beach above the present shoreline, however, does not generally give a straightforward indication of the height of a former sea level.
The old monastic scriptoria-monastery workshops where monks copied texts by hand-worked closely alongside the new presses, continuing to produce the luxury goods that movable-type printing could not yet supply.
By 1500 there were printing firms in 60 German cities, but there were 150 presses in Venice along.
