Only the last of these was suited at all to the continuous operating of machines, and although waterpower abounded in Lancashire and Scotland and ran grain mills as well as textile mills, it had one great disadvantage: streams flowed where nature intended them to, and water-driven factories had to be located on their banks whether or not the location was desirable for other reasons.
Most of the older organisms were nearly wiped out, although a few hardy species survived.
These peoples settled at first in scattered hunting-and-gathering bands, although in some places near lakes and rivers, people who fished, with a more secure food supply, lived in larger population concentrations.
Iron came from West Asia, although its routes of diffusion were somewhat different than those of agriculture.
Most of Africa presents a curious case in which societies moved directly from a technology of stone to iron without passing through the intermediate stage of copper or bronze metallurgy, although some early copper-working sites have been found in West Africa.
Long and often lyrical descriptions of the different types of ware exist that assist in classifying pots, although these sometimes confuse an already large and complicated picture.
They were reasonably well governed, without notable corruption or grandiose state projects, although in all of them the government gave some aid to railways, and in Sweden the state built the main lines.
Most units raised in Britain went elsewhere on the European continent, although one is recorded in Morocco.
First came the steamboat; although flatboats and keelboats continued to be important until the 1850  s steamboats eventually superseded all other craft in the carrying of passengers and freight.
The idea of a world population crisis is therefore unlikely, although population pressure might have arisen in some areas.
However, detailed studies of the chondrite matrix suggest that much of it, too, has been formed by condensation or melting in the nebula, although minute amounts of surviving interstellar dust are mixed with the processed materials.
Lake Erie  s is the lowest: although its area is larger than Lake Ontario   s, its volume is less than one-third as great because it is so   shallow-less than 20 meters on average.
The amount of air exchanged is even lower in REM than NREM because, although breathing is more rapid in REM, it is also more irregular, with brief episodes of shallow breathing or absence of breathing.
Most are made by older males, although females and younger males (2.5 years old or less) occasionally make scrapes.
Most roman pottery is light and smooth to the touch and very tough, although, like all pottery, it shatters if dropped on a hard surface.
The result was the extermination of a large fraction of the South American mammals, which were apparently unable to withstand the competition from invading North American species  although added predation was also an important factor.
In the United States, in comparison, parents regard the primary purpose of preschools as making children more independent and self-reliant, although obtaining a good academic start and having group experience are also important.
Finally, some research suggests that ultimately Head Start graduates show higher academic performance at the end of high school, although the gains are modest. 
Frequent fire is a factor to which rain forest species seem unable to adapt, although ancient charcoal remains from Amazon forest soils dating prior to the arrival of humans suggest that moist forests also occasionally burn.
An extremely abundant set of planktonic marine animals called foraminifera largely disappeared, although they rebounded later.
Thigmothermy is a behavior present in most amphibians, although pressing against the ground serves a dual purpose: heat absorption by conductivity and water absorption through the skin.
At a much larger scale, baleen whales and whale sharks are also efficient filter-feeders in productive coastal or polar waters, although their filtered particles comprise small animals such as copepods and krill rather than phytoplankton.
Hence, although the Germans made use of the paper revolution to introduce movable type, the Italians went far to regain the initiative by their artistry.
