The water was always laden with pebbles, gravel, and sand, known as glacial outwash, that was deposited as the flow slowed down. 
Even the kind of stability defined as simple lack of change is not always associated with maximum diversity.
Although this rise of oil is almost always carefully controlled today, spouts of oil, or gushers, were common in the past.
Fossil formations like the Burgess Shale show that evolution cannot always be thought of as a slow progression.
While rock between two consistent strata might in one place be shale and in another sandstone, the fossils in that shale or sandstone were always the same.
Not only could Smith identify rock strata by the fossils they contained, he could also see a pattern emerging: certain fossils always appear in more ancient sediments, while others begin to be seen as the strata become more recent.
As always, there are the power worshippers, especially among historians, who are predisposed to admire whatever is strong, who feel more attracted to the might of Rome than to the subtlety of Greece.
The boxes were stationary, and the one containing food was always at the same point of the compass.
In the few cases where an Ice Age figure is depicted holding something, it is mostly, though not always, in the right hand.
As among tribespeople, personal relationships and a careful weighing of character have always been crucial in a mercantile economy with little regulation, where one's word is one's bond and where informal ties of trust cement together an international trade network.
Assessing the impact of the army on the civilian population starts from the realization that the soldiers were always unevenly distributed across the country.
Light-loving species are always among the first invaders, while shade-tolerant species appear later in the succession.
An ant colony may be legitimately called a superorganism because its communication system is so highly organized that the colony always works as a whole and appropriately according to the circumstances.
While hunter-gatherers always had the option of moving elsewhere when the resources were exhausted, this became more difficult with farming.
In particular, and quite logically, the art of painting was forever changed, though not always in the ways one might have expected.
Growing food at these elevations is always difficult because of the short growing season.
Unlike aquatic and marine forms, land plants cannot always rely on water currents to carry their sex cells and disperse their fertilized eggs.
Texts dealing with economic matters predominated, as they always had done; but at this point works of theology, literature, history, and law also appeared.
Unfortunately, it is in the nature of the archaeological evidence, which is almost invariably only a sample of what once existed, that such figures will always be elusive.
Thus, whether play occurs or not depends on the intention of the animal, and intentions are not always clear from behavior alone.
The question about the rate of evolution must now be turned around: does evolution ever proceed gradually, or does it always occur in short bursts?
One moves from the task-oriented time consciousness of the peasant (working one job after another, as time and light permit) and the time-filling busyness of the domestic servant (who always hand something to do) to an effort to maximize product per unit of time. 
Many plants depend on wind for dispersal and produce abundant quantities of small, relatively short-lived seeds to compensate for the fact that wind is not always a reliable means of reaching the appropriate type of habitat.
In reality the deep is always being refreshed by cold water sinking from above.
The tropics contain a larger surface area of land than higher latitudes  a fact that is not always evident when we examine commonly used projections of Earth's curved surface, since this tends to exaggerate the areas of land in the higher latitudes-and some biogeographers regard the differences in diversity as a reflection of this effect But an analysis of the data by biologist Klaus Rohde does not support this explanation.
Although area may contribute to biodiversity, it is certainly not the whole story; otherwise, large landmasses would always be richer in species.
However, the idea that amphibians have no control whatsoever over their body temperature has been proven false because their body temperature does not always correspond to the surrounding temperature.
Like our own Moon, Callisto rotates in the same period as it revolves, so it always keeps the same face toward Jupiter.
Petroleum is nearly always found in marine sedimentary rocks.
The Minnesota grassland research has been widely accepted as strong evidence for the diversity- stability theory; however, its findings have been questioned, and similar studies on other ecosystems have not always found a positive relationship between diversity and stability.
