A closely related theory sees theater as evolving out of dances that are primarily pantomimic, rhythmical or gymnastic, or from imitations of animal noises and sounds.
Some scientists have proposed that the presence of increasing levels of ultraviolet light with elevation may play a role, while browsing and grazing animals like the ibex may be another contributing factor.
The increasing use of dried animal waste as a substitute fuel has also hurt the soil because this valuable soil conditioner and source of plant nutrients is no longer being returned to the land. 
The early explorers and settlers told of abundant deer in the early 1800s and yet almost in the same breath bemoaned the lack of this succulent game animal.
David Douglas, Scottish botanical explorer of the 1830s, found a disturbing change in the animal life around the fort during the period between his first visit in 1825 and his final contact with the fort in 1832.
The subjects of the paintings are mostly animals.
Another explanation for the focus on animals might be that these people sought to improve their luck at hunting.
Perhaps the paintings were inspired by the need to increase the supply of animals.
The data they present suggest that the animals portrayed in the cave paintings were mostly the ones that the painters preferred for meat and for materials such as hides.
For example, wild cattle (bovines) and horses are portrayed more often than we would expect by chance, probably because they were larger and heavier (meatier) than other animals in the environment.
In addition, the paintings mostly portray animals that the painters may have feared the most because of their size, speed, natural weapons such as tusks and horns, and the unpredictability of their behavior.
But in that period, when getting food no longer depended on hunting large game animals (because they were becoming extinct), the art ceased to focus on portrayals of animals. 
Many shafts of spears and similar objects were decorated with figures of animals.
Contrary to the arguments of some that much of the pacific was settled by Polynesians accidentally marooned after being lost and adrift, it seems reasonable that this feat was accomplished by deliberate colonization expeditions that set out fully stocked with food and domesticated plants and animals.
The geologic timescale is marked by significant geologic and biological events, including the origin of Earth about 4.6 billion years ago, the origin of life about 3.5 billion years ago, the origin of eukaryotic life-forms (living things that have cells with true nuclei) about 1.5 billion years ago, and the origin of animals about 0.6 billion years ago.
During a geologically brief 100-million-year period, all modern animal groups (along with other animals that are now extinct) evolved.
This rapid origin and diversification of animals is often referred to as   the Cambrian explosion.  
Why does the fossil record not document the series of evolutionary changes during the evolution of animals?
Why did animal life evolve so quickly?
One interpretation regarding the absence of fossils during this important 100-million-year period is that early animals were soft bodied and simply did not fossilize.
Fossilization of soft-bodied animals is less likely than fossilization of hard-bodied animals, but it does occur.
Conditions that promote fossilization of soft-bodied animals include very rapid covering by sediments that create an environment that discourages decomposition.
In fact, fossil beds containing soft-bodied animals have been known for many years. 
The Ediacara fossil formation, which contains the oldest known animal fossils, consists exclusively of soft-bodied forms.
This 700-million-year-old formation gives few clues to the origins of modern animals, however, because paleontologists believe it represents an evolutionary experiment that failed.
It contains no ancestors of modern animal groups.
A slightly younger fossil formation containing animal remains is the Tommotian formation, named after a locale in Russia.
At one time, the animals present in these fossil beds were assigned to various modern animal groups, but most paleontologists now agree that all Tommotian fossils represent unique body forms that arose in the early Cambrian period and disappeared before the end of the period, leaving no descendants in modern animal groups.
A third fossil formation containing both soft-bodied and hard-bodied animals provides evidence of the result of the Cambrian explosion.
Shortly after the Cambrian explosion, mud slides rapidly buried thousands of marine animals under conditions that favored fossilization.
These fossil beds provide evidence of about 32 modern animal groups, plus about 20 other animal body forms that are so different from any modern animals that they cannot be assigned to any one of the modern groups.
These unassignable animals include a large swimming predator called Anomalocaris and a soft-bodied animal called Wiwaxia, which ate detritus or algae.
The Burgess Shale formation also has fossils of many extinct representatives of modern animal groups.
For example, a well-known Burgess Shale animal called Sidneyia is a representative of a previously unknown group of arthropods (a category of animals that includes insects, spiders, mites, and crabs).
The Cambrian explosion involved rapid evolutionary diversification, followed by the extinction of many unique animals.
Perhaps another ancient fossil bed of soft-bodied animals from 600-million-year-old seas is awaiting discovery.
There were three sources of power: animal or human muscles; the wind, operating on sail or windmill; and running water.
Soon it was realized that this principle of faunal (animal) succession was valid not only in England or France but virtually everywhere.
One question was related to evidence that the invertebrate fauna (animals without spines) of the Mediterranean had changed abruptly about 6 million years ago.
If true, though, why did cold-blooded animals such as snakes, lizards, turtles, and crocodiles survive the freezing winters and torrid summers?
These animals are at the mercy of the climate to maintain a livable body temperature.
Many plants and animals disappear abruptly from the fossil record as one moves from layers of rock documenting the end of the Cretaceous up into rocks representing the beginning of the Cenozoic (the era after the Mesozoic).
Vast areas along the coast may have been deglaciated beginning around 16,000 years ago, possibly providing a coastal corridor for the movement of plants, animals, and humans sometime between 13,000 and 14,000 years ago. 
The coastal hypothesis has gained increasing support in recent years because the remains of large land animals, such as caribou and brown bears, have been found in southeastern Alaska dating between 10,000 and 12,500 years ago.
Kramer initiated important new kinds of research regarding how animals orient and navigate.
Many signals that animals make seem to impose on the signalers costs that are overly damaging.
Because close relatives have many of the same genes, animals that harm their close relatives may in effect be destroying some of their own genes.
Survival and successful reproduction usually require the activities of animals to be coordinated with predictable events around them.
The relations between animal activity and these periods, particularly for the daily rhythms, have been of such interest and importance that a huge amount of work has been done on them and the special research field of chronobiology has emerged.
Normally, the constantly changing levels of an animal's activity  sleeping, feeding, moving, reproducing, metabolizing, and producing enzymes and hormones, for example  are well coordinated with environmental rhythms, but the key question is whether the animal's schedule is driven by external cues, such as sunrise or sunset, or is instead dependent somehow on internal timers that themselves generate the observed biological rhythms.
Like almost all daily cycles of animals deprived of environmental cues, those measured for the horseshoe crabs in these conditions were not exactly 24 hours.
A particular animal typically maintains its own characteristic cycle duration with great precision for many days.
Typically, the animal's daily internally generated cycle of activity continues without change.
Such an external cue not only coordinates an animal's daily rhythms with particular features of the local solar day but also  because it normally does so day after day-seems to keep the internal clock's period close to that of Earth's rotation.
Yet despite this synchronization of the period of the internal cycle, the animal's timer itself continues to have its own genetically built-in period close to, but different from, 24 hours.
This drift has been studied extensively in many animals and in biological activities ranging from the hatching of fruit fly eggs to wheel running by squirrels.
Even a fifteen-minute burst of light in otherwise sustained darkness can reset an animal's circadian rhythm.
Here, the horse was already becoming the animal of prestige in many regions, though sheep, goats, and cattle could also play a vital role.
The mobility of pastoralist societies reflects their dependence on animal-based foods.
While agriculturalists rely on domesticated plants, pastoralists rely on domesticated animals.
A modern Turkic nomad interviewed by Cribb commented: "The more animals you have, the farther you have to move."
The bigger the animal is, the lower its surface-to-volume ratio; for every ounce of body mass, there is proportionately less surface through which heat can escape.
The problem is that as blood flows through the turtle  s flippers, it risks losing enough heat to lower the animal  s central body temperature when it returns.
The leatherback is certainly not the only animal with such an arrangement; gulls have a countercurrent exchange in their legs.
Both animals and plants have different appearances in these various lighting conditions.
In the varied and constantly changing light environment of the forest, an animal must be able to send visual signals to members of its own species and at the same time avoid being detected by predators.
An animal can hide from predators by choosing the light environment in which its pattern is least visible.
In the green-to-yellow lighting conditions of the lowest levels of the forest, yellow and green would be the brightest colors, but when an animal is signaling, these colors would not be very visible if the animal was sitting in an area with a yellowish or greenish background.
Less colorful birds and animals that inhabit the rain forest tend to rely on other forms of signaling other than the visual, particularly over long distances.
An example of a parasite is a tapeworm that lives inside the intestines of a larger animal and absorbs nutrients from its host.
As an example, plants make chemicals toxic to fungal and bacterial parasites, along with ones toxic to predatory animals (sometimes they are the same chemicals).
They sting other insects and large herbivores (animals that eat only plants) and even clip surrounding vegetation that grows near the tree.
The imposition of a military base involved the requisition of native lands for both the fort and the territory needed to feed and exercise the soldiers' animals.
Even less fortunate was the extension of this type of thinking to include animals as well as plants.
Though it is true that many animals are strictly associated with certain plants, it is misleading to speak of a "spruce-moose biome," for example, because there is no internal cohesion to their association as in an organism.
With "climax," "biome," "superorganism," and various other technical terms for the association of animals and plants at a given locality being criticized, the term "ecosystem" was more and more widely adopted for the whole system of associated organisms together with the physical factors of their environment.
Nevertheless, one still speaks of the ecosystem when referring to a local association of animals and plants, usually without paying much attention to the energy aspects.
Many areas were richer in animal and plant species than they are now, making them highly favorable for human occupation.
On occasion, animals and plants have been preserved after becoming immersed in tar or quicksand, trapped in ice or lava flows, or engulfed by rapid falls of volcanic ash.
Petrifaction may also involve a simultaneous exchange of the original substance of a dead plant or animal with mineral matter of a different composition.
The shale was deposited in an oxygen-deficient lake where lethal gases sometimes bubbled up and killed animals.
Agriculture developed slowly among populations that had an extensive knowledge of plants and animals.
There were, however, fluctuations in the climatic conditions, with the consequences that wet conditions were followed by dry ones, so that the availability of plants and animals oscillated brusquely.
Mithen proposes the existence of four mental elements to account for the emergence of farming: (1) the ability to develop tools that could be used intensively to harvest and process plant resources; (2) the tendency to use plants and animals as the medium to acquire social prestige and power; (3) the tendency to develop "social relationships" with animals structurally similar to those developed with people  specifically, the ability to think of animals as people (anthropomorphism) and of people as animals (totemism); and (4) the tendency to manipulate plants and animals.
The fact that some societies domesticated animals and plants, discovered the use of metal tools, became literate, and developed a state should not make us forget that others developed pastoralism or horticulture (vegetable gardening) but remained illiterate and at low levels of productivity; a few entered the modern period as hunting and gathering societies.
In New Zealand the plant has spread rapidly, changing mudflats with marshy fringes to extensive salt meadows and reducing the number and kinds of birds and animals that use the marsh.
Scientific experiments made by photographers such as Eadweard Muybridge (1830-1904) and Etienne-Jules Marey (1830-1904) demonstrated that the movements of both humans and animals differed widely from the way they had been traditionally represented in art.
The high prices encouraged the peasants to improve their animal husbandry techniques; for example, they began feeding their animals indoors in order to raise the milk yield of their cows.
In order to increase production on existing land, the peasants made more use of crop rotation and, in particular, began to apply animal waste to the soil regularly, rather than leaving the fertilization process up to the grazing livestock.
In the 1970s when the study of Australian archaeology was in an exciting phase of development, with the great antiquity of rock art becoming clear, Lesley Maynard, the archaeologist who coined the phrase   Panaramitee style,   suggested that a sequence could be determined for Australian rock art, in which a geometric style gave way to a simple figurative style (outlines of figures and animals), followed by a range of complex figurative styles that, unlike the pan-Australian geometric tradition tended to much greater regional diversity.
Until the eighteenth century, people relied on energy derived from plants as well as animal and human muscle to provide power Increased efficiency in the use of water and wind helped with such tasks as pumping, milling, or sailing.
The harsh conditions in deserts are intolerable for most plants and animals.
Despite these conditions, however, many varieties of plants and animals have adapted to deserts in a number of ways.
Escape involves such actions as aestivation, a condition of prolonged dormancy, or torpor, during which animals reduce their metabolic rate and body temperature during the hot season or during very dry spells.
The term retreat is applied to the short-term escape behavior of desert animals, and it usually assumes the pattern of a daily rhythm.
Some animals have behavioral, physiological, and morphological (structural) adaptations that enable them to withstand extreme conditions.
How do predetors affect populations of the prey animals?
The wolves eat mostly old or diseased animals that would not survive long anyway.
However, if safe areas like those prey animals have in the wild are provided, the prey population drops to low levels but not to extinction.
The areas that are now desert were, like all arid regions, very susceptible to cycles of higher and lower levels of rainfall, resulting in major, sudden changes in distributions of plants and animals.
The people who hunted the sparse desert animals responded to drought by managing the wild resources they hunted and gathered, especially wild oxen, which had to have regular water supplies to survive.
Both humans and animals were constantly on the move, in search of food and reliable water supplies.
The beasts were more disciplined, so that it was easier for hunters to predict their habits, and capture animals at will.
But soon they also gained genetic control of the animals, which led to rapid physical changes in the herd.
The newly domesticated animals behaved better, were easier to control, and may have enjoyed a higher birth rate, which in turn yielded greater milk supplies.
We know from rock paintings deep in the Sahara that the herders were soon selecting breeding animals to produce offspring with different horn shapes and hide colors.
Their artistic endeavors have been preserved in paintings of wild animals, cattle, goats, humans, and scenes of daily life that extend back perhaps to 5000 B.C.
First, the chemicals deposited on the rub provide information on the individual identity of an animal; no two mammals produce the same scent.
This was described by Darwin for indigenous New Zealand species of animals and plants, which died out when competing species from Europe were introduced.
The effects of such competition are graphically demonstrated when all the animals or all the plants in an ecosystem come into competition, as happened 2 million years ago at the end of the Pliocene, when North and South America became joined by the Isthmus of Panama.
In the case of animals it is usually food; in the case of forest plants it may be light; in the case of substrate inhabitants it may be space, as in many shallow-water bottom-dwelling marine organisms.
Moving water was one of the earliest energy sources to be harnessed to reduce the workload of people and animals.
In any case, in animals it consists of leaping, running, climbing, throwing, wrestling, and other movements, either alone, with objects, or with other animals.
Thus, whether play occurs or not depends on the intention of the animal, and intentions are not always clear from behavior alone.
Play appears to be a developmental characteristic of animals with fairly sophisticated nervous systems, mainly birds and mammals.
Exactly why animals play is still a matter debated in the research literature, and the reasons may not be the same for every species that plays.
Determining the functions of play is difficult because the functions may be long-term, with beneficial effects not showing up until the animal  s adulthood.
Play is not without considerable costs to the individual animal.
Therefore, it results in the loss of fuel or energy that might better be used for growth or for building up fat stores in a young animal.
Play allows a young animal to explore its environment and practice skills in comparative safety since the surrounding adults generally do not expect the young do deal with threats or predators.
For example, Peter Sheldon  s studies of trilobites, a now extinct marine animal with a segmented body, offer a detailed glimpse into three million years of evolution in one marine environment.
When the glaciers retreated, the separated populations of plants and animals came into contact again.
Aggressive species apparently mark prospective nest sites with pheromones, chemical substances secreted by some animals for communication with other members of their species.
It was an artificial ecosystem of animals, woodlots, and crops, whose large, uniform layout made western farms more efficient than the more-irregular farms in the East.
Starting about 280 million years ago, reptiles were the dominant large animals in terrestrial environments.
However, no group or species can maintain its dominance indefinitely, and when, after over 200 million years, the age of dinosaurs came to a dramatic end about 65 million years ago, mammals began to flourish, evolving from relatively few types of small terrestrial animals into the myriad of diverse species, including bats and whales, that we know today.
Overall, about 38 percent of the families of marine animals were lost, with percentages much higher in some groups Ammonoid mollusks went from being very diverse and abundant to being extinct.
An extremely abundant set of planktonic marine animals called foraminifera largely disappeared, although they rebounded later.
It is now widely believed that at least some species of dinosaurs had a metabolic rate high enough for them to be endotherms (animals that maintain a relatively consistent body temperature by generating heat internally).
There is also evidence to suggest that grazers (animals that feed on plants or stationary animals), particularly selective grazers, can influence the phytoplankton species composition.
The numerous plants and animals living in the soil release minerals from the parent material from which soil is formed, supply organic matter, aid in the translocation (movement) and aeration of the soil, and help protect the soil from erosion.
These single-celled organisms are the most numerous representatives of the animal kingdom, and, like bacteria, a million or more can sometimes inhabit each cubic centimeter of soil.
Among other soil-dwelling animals, the earthworm is probably the most important.
These animals primarily work the soil mechanically.
He collected hundreds of different species of animals, and he saw that they were distributed in eight different depth zones, each containing its own distinct assemblage of animal life, the way zones of elevation on the side of a mountain are populated by distinct sets of plants. 
Forbes also thought he saw, as he later told the British Association, that   the number of species and individuals diminishes as we descend, pointing to a zero in the distribution of animal life as yet unvisited.
This zero, Forbes casually speculated--he simply extended a line on his graph of animal number versus depth--probably began at a depth of 1,800 feet.
Below that was the final zone in Forbes  s scheme, zone nine, a zone that covered most of the ocean floor and thus most of the solid surface of Earth: Forbes called this the azoic zone, where no animal, to say nothing of plants, could survive. 
Although the Aegean had been the birthplace of marine biology, its depths are now known to be exceptionally lacking in animal diversity.
Its opening was so small and the holes in the net so large that the dredge inevitably missed animals.
It is becoming increasingly common for conservationists to move individual animals or entire species from one site to another.
This may be either to establish a new population where a population of conspecifics ( animals or plants belonging to the same species) has become extinct or to add individuals to an existing population.
Direct translocation has been used a wide range of plants and animals and was carried out to maintain populations as a source of food long before conservation was a familiar term.
The nature of translocation ranges from highly organized and researched national or international programs to as hoc releases of rescued animals by well-intentioned animal lovers.
But they discovered a great deal, including the cells composing animal and plant tissues, microscopic organisms, and some of the structures within cells.
The most striking of these animals must have been moa.
The possibility of analyzing ancient DNA to identify past diseases of extinct animals is being explored.
This seems to be true for many different groups of animals and plants.
Structure has a strong influence on the animal life inhabiting a site, it forms the spatial environment within which an animal feeds, moves around, shelters, Ives, and breeds.
The complexity of the microclimate is closely related to the complexity of structure in vegetation, and generally speaking, the more complex the structure of vegetation, the more speeds of animal are able to make a living there.
The climates of the higher latitudes are generally less favorable for the accumulation of large quantities of biomass; hence, the structure of vegetation is simpler and the animal diversity is consequently lower.
The passage of wind-blown tree pollen is also not hindered by such barriers, and the seeds of many plants may be carried back and forth on animals.
For example, in less than two million years, small populations of stray animals and plants from the South American mainland that managed to colonize the Galapagos Islands gave rise to all the species that now inhabit the islands.
Thus, by the Devonian the land habitat marginal to freshwater was probably a rich source of protein that could be exploited by an animal that could easily climb out of water.
However, many problems that faced early land plants were not applicable to the first tetrapods The ancestors of these animals already had a circulation system, and they were mobile, so that they could move to water to drink.
By contrast, in the tropics, where each tree species has few, widely scattered individuals, the chance of wind blowing pollen to another individual is sufficiently slim that animals are a safer bet as transporters of pollen.
Since wind-pollinated flowers have no need to attract insects or other animals, they have dispensed with bright petals, nectar, and scent.
In the open sea, animals can often find food reliably available in particular regions or seasons (e g., in coastal areas in springtime).
In these circumstances, animals are neither constrained to get the last calorie out of their diet nor is energy conservation a high priority.
In contrast, the food levels in the deeper layers of the ocean are greatly reduced, and the energy constraints on the animals are much more severe To survive at those levels, animals must maximize their energy input, finding and eating whatever potential food source may be present.
In the near-surface layers, there are many large, fast carnivores as well as an immense variety of planktonic animals, which feed on plankton (small, free-floating plants or animals) by filtering them from currents of water that pass through a specialized anatomical structure These filter-feeders thrive in the well-illuminated surface waters because oceans have so many very small organisms, from bacteria to large algae to larval crustaceans.
At a much larger scale, baleen whales and whale sharks are also efficient filter-feeders in productive coastal or polar waters, although their filtered particles comprise small animals such as copepods and krill rather than phytoplankton.
Filtering seawater for its particulate nutritional content can be an energetically demanding method of feeding, particularly when the current of water to be filtered has to be generated by the organism itself, as is the case for all planktonic animals.
Even though mean levels may mask much higher local concentrations, it is still the case that many deep-sea animals are exposed to conditions in which a normal filter-feeder would starve
Another solution for such animals is to forage in particular layers of water where the particles may be more concentrated.
Many of the groups of animals that typify the filter-feeding lifestyle in shallow water have deep-sea representatives that have become predatory.
In the deeper waters of the oceans, there is a much greater tendency for animals to await the arrival of food particles or prey rather than to search them out actively (thus minimizing energy expenditure).
This has resulted in a more stealthy style of feeding, with the consequent emphasis on lures and/or the evolution of elongated appendages that increase the active volume of water controlled or monitored by the animal.
Another consequence of the limited availability of prey is that many animals have developed ways of coping with much larger food particles, relative to their own body size, than the equivalent shallower species can process.
The contents of the earliest clay tablets are simple notations of numbers of commodities  animals, jars, baskets, etc.
Their physical structure is dominated by the skeletons of corals, which are carnivorous animals living off zooplankton.
There was also a gain in farm tools, draft animals, and fertilizer, to say nothing of the population growth itself, which increased half again as fast as cultivated land area and so increased the ratio of human hands available per unit of land.
Traditionally, this information has been derived from direct evidence, such as stomach contents, and indirect evidence, such as establishing a correlation between particular body characteristics and diets of living animals and then inferring habits for dinosaurs. 
Many of these animals are also armed with sharp claws.
Now consider animals like cows, horses, rabbits, and mice.
These animals have flat teeth at the back of the jaw that are analogous to and have the same function as grindstones.
Unlike the meat-slicing and stabbing teeth of carnivores, the teeth of these animals grind and shred plant material before digestion.
In herbivorous animals, rapid jaw closure is less important.
Stomach contents are only rarely preserved, but when present, allow us to determine exactly what these animals were eating.
In the stomach contents of specimens of Coelophysis (a small, long-necked dinosaur) are bones from juvenile animals of the same species.
At one time, these were thought to represent embryonic animals, suggesting that this small dinosaur gave birth to live young rather than laying eggs.
Many parts of plants and animals are extremely resistant to the digestive systems of animals and pass completely through the body with little or no alteration.
Raised beaches often consist of areas of sand, pebbles, or dunes, sometimes containing seashells or piles of debris comprising shells and bones of marine animals used by humans.
