During the early stages of its development, a society becomes aware of forces that appear to influence or control its food supply and well-being.
For example, one sign of this condition is the appearance of the comic vision, since comedy requires sufficient detachment to view some deviations from social norms as ridiculous rather than as serious threats to the welfare of the entire group.
Within a vertical distance of just a few tens of meters, trees disappear as a life-form and are replaced by low shrubs, herbs, and grasses.
In the tropics, the valleys appear to be more favorable because they are less prone to dry out, they have less frost, and they have deeper soils.
Some of those slabs appear to have been painted as much as 28,000 years ago, which suggests that painting in Africa is as old as painting in Europe.
At one time, the animals present in these fossil beds were assigned to various modern animal groups, but most paleontologists now agree that all Tommotian fossils represent unique body forms that arose in the early Cambrian period and disappeared before the end of the period, leaving no descendants in modern animal groups.
Furthermore, even the most reliable waterpower varied with the seasons and disappeared in a drought.
Some fossils endured through so many millions of years that they appear in many strata, but others occur only in a few strata, and a few species had their births and extinctions within one particular stratum.
Not only could Smith identify rock strata by the fossils they contained, he could also see a pattern emerging: certain fossils always appear in more ancient sediments, while others begin to be seen as the strata become more recent.
Interbedded with the salt were thin layers of what appeared to be windblown silt.
Many plants and animals disappear abruptly from the fossil record as one moves from layers of rock documenting the end of the Cretaceous up into rocks representing the beginning of the Cenozoic (the era after the Mesozoic).
They appear only in equatorial regions and generally do not form extensive interconnected networks.
There appear to be many unexplored matters about the motivation to reflect  C for example, the value of externally motivated reflection as opposed to that of teachers who might reflect by habit. 
To twentieth-century eyes, Chinese pottery may appear merely decorative, yet to the Chinese the form of each object and its adornment had meaning and significance.
Whether the box appeared in front of the right wall or the left wall, they showed no signs of confusion.
Further evidence for persistent internal rhythms appears when the usual external cycles are shifted  either experimentally or by rapid east-west travel over great distances.
Regarding the appearance of celebrities in advertisements that do not involve host selling, the evidence is mixed.
So, it is no accident that with the appearance of pastoralist societies there appear large areas that share similar cultural, ecological, and even linguistic features.
So, by and large, nomadism implies a high degree of self-sufficiency and inhibits the appearance of an extensive division of labor.
The structure of the periodic table appeared to limit the number of possible elements.
There appears to be a correlation between the positions of these planets and their sizes.
Both animals and plants have different appearances in these various lighting conditions.
Some chameleon species can change from a rather dull appearance to a full riot of carnival colors in seconds.
Light-loving species are always among the first invaders, while shade-tolerant species appear later in the succession.
It would appear that the instability of the climatic conditions led populations that had originally been nomadic to settle down and develop a sedentary style of life, which led in turn to population growth and to the need to increase the amount of food available.
Cognitive fluidity explains the appearance of art, religion, and sophisticated speech.
Chondrites take their name from the Greek word chondros  meaning "seed"  an allusion to their appearance as rocks containing tiny seeds.
However, studies of the textures of inclusions reveal that the order in which the minerals appeared in the inclusions varies from inclusion to inclusion, and often does not match the theoretical condensation sequence for those metals.
The cause appears to be in part greater turbulence in the urban atmosphere as hot air rises from the built-up surface.
However, what is astonishing about this is not that Dutch agriculture was affected by critical phenomena such as a decrease in sales and production, but the fact that the crisis appeared only relatively late in Dutch agriculture.
The frequency with which certain simple motifs appear in these oldest sites has led rock-art researchers to adopt a descriptive term  the Panaramitee style  a label which takes its name from the extensive rock pavements at Panaramitee North in desert South Australia, which are covered with motifs pecked into the surface.
But all of this appears to have changed thirteenth century.
The detailed appearance of Martian impact craters provides an important piece of information about conditions just below the planet's surface.
Explosive impacts heated and liquefied the ice, resulting in the fluid appearance of the ejecta.
All of these features appeared later in the evolutionary history of plants.
The earliest of the city states of the ancient Near East appeared at the southern end of the Mesopotamian plain, the area between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers in what is now Iraq.
At first sight, the plain did not appear to be a likely home for a civilization.
to the appearance of writing.
Texts dealing with economic matters predominated, as they always had done; but at this point works of theology, literature, history, and law also appeared.
In an early fourth-millennium level of the Eanna archaeological site at Uruk, a pottery style appears that is most characteristic of this process, the so-called beveled-rim bowl.
), there first appeared a type of object that remained characteristic for Mesopotamia throughout its entire history: the cylinder seal.
When rolled over a soft material---primarily the clay of bullae (round seals), tablets, or clay lumps attached to boxes, jars, or door bolts---the scene would appear in relief, easily legible.
From the first appearance of cylinder seals, the carved scenes could be highly elaborate and refined, indicating the work of specialist stone-cutters.
Population cycles are characteristic of small mammals, and they sometimes appear to be brought about by predators.
Two factors appear to be generating the cycle: food plants and predators.
The problem is that competition ordinarily cannot be observed directly but must be inferred from the spread or increase of one species and the concurrent reduction or disappearance of another species.
The device appears to have evolved no later than the fifth century B.C., perhaps independently in different regions of the Middle and Far East. 
The earliest waterpower mills were probably vertical-axis mills for grinding corn, known as Norse or Greek mills, which seem to have appeared during the first or second century B.C.
Play appears to be a developmental characteristic of animals with fairly sophisticated nervous systems, mainly birds and mammals.
Many species appear to remain unchanged in the fossil record for millions of years    a situation that seems to be at odds with Darwin  s model of continuous change.
It seems to have appeared in Italy and England (perhaps simultaneous invention) between 1275 and 1300.
Second, it appears that closely related populations of fishes on both sides of the isthmus are starting to genetically diverge from each other.
Once the humus layer disappears, nutrients cannot be recycled and leach from the soil, converting soil from fertile to infertile and making it suitable only for savanna vegetation.
Species succession in plant communities, i.e., the temporal sequence of appearance and disappearance of species is dependent on events occurring at different stages in the life history of a species.
Provincial police began to appear, along with district officers and cattle registration and land deeds and registration for compulsory military service.
Bees did not appear to be injured in these fights, which were apparently ritualized.
The appearance of these sedentary societies had a major impact on the social organizations, religious beliefs, and way of life of the peoples living within their boundaries.
Within these cities, new forms of livelihood appeared to satisfy the growing need for social services and consumer goods.
In the absence of these fires, trees reappeared on land not in cultivation and, if undisturbed, eventually formed woodlots.
An extremely abundant set of planktonic marine animals called foraminifera largely disappeared, although they rebounded later.
A successful translocation exercise also appears to have been achieved with red howler monkeys in French Guiana.
Although the troops appeared to undergo initial problems, causing them to split up, all the tracked females settled into normal behavioral patterns. 
The fundamental premise of modern architecture was that the appearance of the building should exhibit the nature of its materials and forms of physical support.
Their appearance and subsequent flourishing in Utah  s Great Salt Lake valley within the last 40 years appears to be from such an introduction.
Scholars have detected some 6,000 separate hieroglyphic characters in use over the history of Egyptian writing, but it appears that never more than a thousand were in use during any one period.
Climatic conditions in New Zealand appear to have been relatively stable over the period during which moa became extinct.
Different factors could have worked in concert to account for their abrupt disappearance.
Forest and shrubland burning appears to have reduced the prime habitat of many moa species.
While there appears to have been extensive burning on the east side of New Zealand  s South Island, large forest tracts remained in the most southern part of the island.
For South Island, human predation appears to have been a significant factor in the depletion of the population of moa.
As a result, many natural ponderosa pine forests have a parklike appearance, with low fuel loads, big trees spaced apart, and a relatively clear understory.
Once Venus   oceans disappeared, so did the mechanism for removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.
Others have blamed extinction on competition from the mammals, which allegedly ate all the dinosaur eggs-except that mammals and dinosaurs appeared at the same time in the Late Triassic, about 190 million years ago, and there is no reason to believe that mammals suddenly acquired a taste for dinosaur eggs after 120 million years of coexistence.
On land, there was also a crisis among the land plants, in addition to the disappearance of dinosaurs.
Even more alarming is the fact that they appear to be getting stronger.
Writing, it would appear, started as a primitive form of bookkeeping.
They range from simple textbook material to literature-and they make an appearance very early, even from the third millennium B C E.
Darwin s theory was that the succession from one coral reef type to another could be achieved by the upward growth of coral from a sinking platform, and that there would be a progression from a fringing reef, through the barrier reef stage until, with the disappearance through subsidence (sinking) of the central island, only a reef-enclosed lagoon or atoll would survive.
Study of coprolites has indicated that the diets of some herbivorous dinosaurs were relatively diverse, while other dinosaurs appear to have been specialists, feeding on particular types of plants.
