Even the kind of stability defined as simple lack of change is not always associated with maximum diversity.
Paleontologists have argued for a long time that the demise of the dinosaurs was caused by climatic alterations associated with slow changes in the positions of continents and seas resulting from plate tectonics.
Critics also point out that the shallow seaways had retreated from and advanced on the continents numerous times during the Mesozoic, so why did the dinosaurs survive the climatic changes associated with the earlier fluctuations but not with this one?
The eggs   advertised   by the tree-nesters' begging calls were found bitten significantly more often than the eggs associated with the ground-nesters' calls.
Parasitism is a kind of predator-prey relationship in which one organism, the parasite, derives its food at the expense of its symbiotic associate, the host.
Though it is true that many animals are strictly associated with certain plants, it is misleading to speak of a "spruce-moose biome," for example, because there is no internal cohesion to their association as in an organism.
With "climax," "biome," "superorganism," and various other technical terms for the association of animals and plants at a given locality being criticized, the term "ecosystem" was more and more widely adopted for the whole system of associated organisms together with the physical factors of their environment.
Heat islands develop best under particular conditions associated with light winds, but they can form almost any time.
The environmental changes associated with this transition are not fully understood, but people living closest to the San Juan Mountains, to the northeast of Mesa Verde, were affected first.
Most of the largest volcanoes are associated with the Tharsis bulge, but many smaller ones are found in the northern plains.
In some way, the elite had associated themselves with the power of the gods.
Second, because only male deer rub, the buck rub and its associated chemicals indicate the sex of the deer producing the rub.
Forces associated with subterranean heat cause land to be uplifted into plateaus and mountain ranges.
Their high-protein, low-carbohydrate diets result in low body-fat levels, which are commonly associated with low fertility in women.
At the same time, they have retained some traditional cultural practices that are associated with particular art forms.
Dinosaurs rapidly became extinct about 65 million years ago as part of a mass extinction known as the K-T event, because it is associated with a geological signature known as the K-T boundary, usually a thin band of sedimentation found in various parts of the world (K is the traditional abbreviation for the Cretaceous, derived from the German name Kreideieit).
We should not underestimate the social status associated with such mundane possessions which had not previously been available.
There are some submarine islands called guyots and seamounts, in which subsidence associated with sea-floor spreading has been too speedy for coral growth to keep up.
