If this hypothesis is true, then it follows that nestlings should adjust the intensity of their signals in relation to the signals produced by their nestmates, who are competing for parental attention.
Precise measurements can be made of the length and frequency of the infant's attention between two stimuli.
Increases in the number of sucks were used as an indicator of the infant's attention to or preference for a given visual display.
Fantasy situations and settings are frequently used to attract children's attention, particularly in food advertising.
The Permian event has attracted much less attention than other mass extinctions because mostly unfamiliar species perished at that time.
Of the various hypotheses attempting to account for the late Cretaceous extinctions, the one that has attracted the most attention in recent years is the asteroid-impact hypothesis first suggested by Luis and Walter Alvarez.
Lightning that strikes the ground is the most likely to be destructive, so even though it represents only 20 percent of all lightning, it has received a lot of scientific attention.
Nevertheless, one still speaks of the ecosystem when referring to a local association of animals and plants, usually without paying much attention to the energy aspects.
The five major mass extinctions receive most of the attention, but they are only one end of a spectrum of extinction events.
Successful translocations inevitably get recorded and gain attention, whereas failures may never be recorded at all.
The Peisistratids, as the succession of tyrants were called (after the founder of the dynasty, Peisistratos), strengthened Athenian central administration at the expense of the aristocracy by appointing judges throughout the region, producing Athens' first national coinage, and adding and embellishing festivals that tended to focus attention on Athens rather than on local villages of the surrounding region.
The existence of wealth did not escape the attention of kings and other rulers.
