For example, as the great ice sheets that covered North America during the last ice age steadily melted away, huge volumes of water flowed from them.
The total volume of water in the saturated sample must therefore be thought of as consisting of water that can, and water that cannot, drain away. 
If the pores are large, the water in them will exist as drops too heavy for surface tension to hold, and it will drain away; but if the pores are small enough, the water in them will exist as thin films, too light to overcome the force of surface tension holding them in place; then the water will be firmly held. 
In some cases the loose soil is blown completely away, leaving a stony surface.
The stone between the arms and the body and between the legs in standing figures or the legs and the seat in seated ones was not normally cut away.
The arms could be held away from the body and carry separate items in their hands; there is no back pillar.
These loud cheeps and peeps might give the location of the nest away to a listening hawk or raccoon, resulting in the death of the defenseless nestlings.
The solution is to allow the flippers to cool down without drawing heat away from the rest of the turtle  s body.
Why were these hundreds of thousands of settlers  most of them farmers, some of them artisans  drawn away from the cleared fields and established cities and villages of the East?
Work has begun to determine the feasibility of using insects as biological controls, but effective biological controls are considered years away.
Photography did indeed make certain kinds of painting obsolete  the daguerreotype virtually did away with the portrait miniature.
Archaeologists identify a corresponding shift in populations toward the south and west toward Mesa Verde and away from higher elevations.
Archaeologists find that even the most isolated residences during the eleventh and twelfth centuries obtained some pottery, and probably food, from some distance away, while major ceremonial events were opportunities for sharing food and crafts.
Timber ran short, and it was necessary to procure it from father and father away.
Impurities were burnt away with the use of coke, producing a high-quality refined iron.
Although this idea was not immediately accepted, the dating of lavas in the Hawaii (and other) chains showed that their ages increase away from the presently active volcano, just as Daly had suggested.
They revealed output powers ranging from about 1 horsepower to perhaps 60 for the largest wheels and confirmed that for maximum efficiency, the water should pass across the blades as smoothly as possible and fall away with minimum speed, having given up almost all of its kinetic energy.
These families were pensioned off(given a sum of money to live on) or simply had their revenues taken away or restricted; their sons were enticed away to schools for district officers, later to be posted in some faraway  province; and the old patron-client relations that had bound together local societies simply disintegrated.
There were still forests closely surrounding Bangkok into the last half of the nineteenth century, and even at century  s end there were wild elephants and tigers roaming the countryside only twenty or thirty miles away.
To return this favor, ants guard the nectaries, driving away or killing intruding insects that might compete with ants for nectar.
Although ants are not big enough to kill or seriously injure grasshoppers, they drive them away by nipping at their feet.
Perhaps the most serious concern about the transgenic crop plants currently in use is that they encourage farmers to move farther away from sustainable agricultural farming practices, meaning ones that allow natural resources to continually regenerate over the long run.
One factor is the direct effect of logging, which often turns a forest into something approximating a huge pile of kindling (wood for burning): the ground in a logged forest may remain covered with branches and treetops, left behind when the valuable trunks are carted away; a dense growth of new vegetation springs up, further increasing the forest  s fuel loads; and the trees logged and removed are of course the biggest and most fire-resistant individuals, leaving behind smaller and more flammable trees.
In the wetter eastern United States, dead trees rot away more quickly than in the drier West, where more dead trees persist like giant matchsticks.
In amphibians hibernation occurs in mud or deep holes away from frost.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the highest ratio of oil and gas pools to volume of sediment is found in rock no older than 2.5 million years  young enough so that little of the petroleum has leaked away  and that nearly 60 percent of all oil and gas discovered so far has been found in strata that formed in the last 65 million years This does not mean that older rocks produced less petroleum; it simply means that oil in older rocks has had a longer time in which to leak away.
Despite these adaptations, much of the pollen fails to leave the top branches, and only between 0.5 percent and 40 percent gets more than 100 meters away from the parent.
