Most answers fall back on the theories about the human mind and basic human needs.
Hydroponics has applications beyond basic research, since it facilitates the growing of greenhouse vegetables during winter.
The basic cultural requirements for the successful colonization of the Pacific islands include the appropriate boat-building, sailing, and navigation skills to get to the islands in the first place, domesticated plants and gardening skills suited to often marginal conditions, and a varied inventory of fishing implements and techniques.
Just as important, the culture also possessed the basic foundation for an effective maritime adaptation, including outrigger canoes and a variety of fishing techniques that could be effective for overseas voyaging.
Much of Africa moved right into the Iron Age, taking the basic technology and adapting it to local conditions and resources.
More basic than the cultural issues is the matter of motivation.
In nearly every language, however the words are phrased, the most basic division in cinema history lies between films that are mute and films that speak.
So, basic ecological principles imply a strong tendency within pastoralist lifeways toward nomadism (a mobile lifestyle).
The glacial system is governed by two basic climatic variables: precipitation and temperature.
It served as the primary source of heat for all homes and industries and as a basic raw material.
Once scarce and expensive, iron became cheap, basic, and indispensable to the economy.
He posed a very basic question:   What is the world made of ?
The purpose and meaning of the sand paintings can be explained by examining one of the most basic ideals of Navajo society, embodied in their word hozho (beauty or harmony, goodness, and happiness).
Bartering was a basic trade mechanism for many thousands of years; often sporadic and usually based on notions of reciprocity, it involved the mutual exchange of commodities or objects between individuals or groups.
Such redistribution was a basic element in chiefdoms.
Eventually, this led to redistribution systems for luxuries and basic commodities, systems that were organized and controlled by Minoan rulers from their palaces.
This script consists of simple shapes, basically just wedge shapes and lines that could easily be incised in soft clay with a reed or wooden stylus; scholars have dubbed it cuneiform from the wedge-shaped marks (cunei in Latin) that are its hallmark Although the ingredients are merely wedges and lines, there are hundreds of combinations of these basic forms that stand for different sounds or words.
