Groundwater is the word used to describe water that saturates the ground, filling all the available spaces.
There it remains, sometimes for long periods, before emerging at the surface again.
At first thought it seems incredible that there can be enough space in the   solid   ground underfoot to hold all this water. 
Beds of this material, out of sight beneath the soil, are common.
Sediments are also dropped where a river slows on entering a lake or the sea, the deposited sediments are on a lake floor or the seafloor at first, but will be located inland at some future date, when the sea level falls or the land rises; such beds are sometimes thousands of meters thick.
In lowland country almost any spot on the ground may overlie what was once the bed of a river that has since become buried by soil; if they are now below the water  s upper surface (the water table), the gravels and sands of the former riverbed, and its sandbars, will be saturated with groundwater. 
This is because the gaps among the original grains are often not totally plugged with cementing chemicals; also, parts of the original grains may become dissolved by percolating groundwater, either while consolidation is taking place or at any time afterwards.
The result is that sandstone, for example, can be as porous as the loose sand from which it was formed.
The total volume of water in the saturated sample must therefore be thought of as consisting of water that can, and water that cannot, drain away. 
The relative amount of these two kinds of water varies greatly from one kind of rock or sediment to another, even though their porosities may be the same.
If the pores are large, the water in them will exist as drops too heavy for surface tension to hold, and it will drain away; but if the pores are small enough, the water in them will exist as thin films, too light to overcome the force of surface tension holding them in place; then the water will be firmly held. 
In seeking to describe the origins of theater, one must rely primarily on speculation, since there is little concrete evidence on which to draw.
The process perceived by these anthropologists may be summarized briefly.
During the early stages of its development, a society becomes aware of forces that appear to influence or control its food supply and well-being.
Perceiving an apparent connection between certain actions performed by the group and the result it desires, the group repeats, refines and formalizes those actions into fixed ceremonies, or rituals.
As a person becomes more sophisticated, its conceptions of supernatural forces and causal relationships may change.
But the myths that have grown up around the rites may continue as part of the group  s oral tradition and may even come to be acted out under conditions divorced from these rites.
When this occurs, the first step has been taken toward theater as an autonomous activity, and thereafter entertainment and aesthetic values may gradually replace the former mystical and socially efficacious concerns. 
Although origin in ritual has long been the most popular, it is by no means the only theory about how the theater came into being.
Storytelling has been proposed as one alternative.
Thus, the recalling of an event (a hunt, battle, or other feat) is elaborated through the narrator  s pantomime and impersonation and eventually through each role being assumed by a different person.
One necessary condition seems to be a somewhat detached view of human problems.
For example, some early societies ceased to consider certain rites essential to their well-being and abandoned them, nevertheless, they retained as parts of their oral tradition the myths that had grown up around the rites and admired them for their artistic qualities rather than for their religious usefulness. 
This rapid zone of transition is called the upper timberline or tree line.
In many semiarid areas there is also a lower timberline where the forest passes into steppe or desert at its lower edge, usually because of a lack of moisture.
The upper timberline, like the snow line, is highest in the tropics and lowest in the Polar Regions.
Timberline trees are normally evergreens, suggesting that these have some advantage over deciduous trees (those that lose their leaves) in the extreme environments of the upper timberline.
There are some areas, however, where broadleaf deciduous trees form the timberline.
Species of birch, for example, may occur at the timberline in parts of the Himalayas.
At the upper timberline the trees begin to become twisted and deformed.
This is because middle- and upper- latitude timberlines are strongly influenced by the duration and depth of the snow cover.
In the tropics, the valleys appear to be more favorable because they are less prone to dry out, they have less frost, and they have deeper soils.
There is still no universally agreed-on explanation for why there should be such a dramatic cessation of tree growth at the upper timberline.
Some scientists have proposed that the presence of increasing levels of ultraviolet light with elevation may play a role, while browsing and grazing animals like the ibex may be another contributing factor.
Immediately adjacent to the timberline, the tundra consists of a fairly complete cover of low-lying shrubs, herbs, and grasses, while higher up the number and diversity of species decrease until there is much bare ground with occasional mosses and lichens and some prostrate cushion plants.
It should be obvious that cetaceans  whales, porpoises, and dolphins  are mammals.
How was the gap between a walking mammal and a swimming whale bridged?
Missing until recently were fossils clearly intermediate, or transitional, between land mammals and cetaceans.
In 1979, a team looking for fossils in northern Pakistan found what proved to be the oldest fossil whale.
Pakicetus was found embedded in rocks formed from river deposits that were 52 million years old.
Other features, however, show experts that Pakicetus is a transitional form between a group of extinct flesh-eating mammals, the mesonychids, and cetaceans.
It has been suggested that Pakicetus fed on fish in shallow water and was not yet adapted for life in the open ocean.
Such legs would have been far too small to have supported the 50-foot-long Basilosaurus on land.
It lived around 3 million years after Pakicetus but 9 million before Basilosaurus.
The deserts, which already occupy approximately a fourth of the Earth's land surface, have in recent decades been increasing at an alarming pace.
It has been estimated that an additional one-fourth of the Earth's land surface is threatened by this process. 
In other cases, the finer particles may be removed, while the sand-sized particles are accumulated to form mobile hills or ridges of sand. 
The process may be accelerated in subsequent decades if global warming resulting from air pollution seriously increases. 
In wet periods, the land may be able to respond to these stresses.
Four specific activities have been identified as major contributors to the desertification processes: overcultivation, overgrazing, firewood gathering, and overirrigation.
The consequences of an excessive number of livestock grazing in an area are the reduction of the vegetation cover and the trampling and pulverization of the soil.
The increasing use of dried animal waste as a substitute fuel has also hurt the soil because this valuable soil conditioner and source of plant nutrients is no longer being returned to the land. 
The water evaporates and the salts are left behind, creating a white crustal layer that prevents air and water from reaching the underlying soil. 
The extreme seriousness of desertification results from the vast areas of land and the tremendous numbers of people affected, as well as from the great difficulty of reversing or even slowing the process.
Once the soil has been removed by erosion, only the passage of centuries or millennia will enable new soil to form.
In the phonograph parlors, customers listened to recordings through individual ear tubes, moving from one machine to the next to hear different recorded speeches or pieces of music.
Edison was more interested in the sale of Kinetoscopes (for roughly $1,000 apiece) to these parlors than in the films that would be run in them (which cost approximately $10 to $15 each).
With the advent of projection in 1895-1896, motion pictures became the ultimate form of mass consumption.
Previously, large audiences had viewed spectacles at the theater, where vaudeville, popular dramas, musical and minstrel shows, classical plays, lectures, and slide-and-lantern shows had been presented to several hundred spectators at a time.
Although early exhibitors regularly accompanied movies with live acts, the substance of the movies themselves is mass-produced, prerecorded material that can easily be reproduced by theaters with little or no active participation by the exhibitor.
Even though early exhibitors shaped their film programs by mixing films and other entertainments together in whichever way they thought would be most attractive to audiences or by accompanying them with lectures, their creative control remained limited.
With the advent of projection, the viewer's relationship with the image was no longer private, as it had been with earlier peepshow devices such as the Kinetoscope and the Mutoscope, which was a similar machine that reproduced motion by means of successive images on individual photographic cards instead of on strips of celluloid.
It suddenly became public  an experience that the viewer shared with dozens, scores, and even hundreds of others.
To be architecture, a building must achieve a working harmony with a variety of elements.
The client who pays for the building and defines its function is an important member of the architectural team.
The mediocre design of many contemporary buildings can be traced to both clients and architects.
In order for the structure to achieve the size and strength necessary to meet its purpose, architecture employs methods of support that, because they are based on physical laws, have changed little since people first discovered them  even while building materials have changed dramatically.
The world  s architectural structures have also been devised in relation to the objective limitations of materials.
Structures can be analyzed in terms of how they deal with downward forces created by gravity.
They are designed to withstand the forces of compression (pushing together), tension (pulling apart), bending, or a combination of these in different parts of the structure.
Even development in architecture has been the result of major technological changes.
Progress in this area can be measured by the difference in weight between buildings built now and those of comparable size built one hundred years ago.
Of course in early architecture  such as igloos and adobe structures  there was no such equipment, and the skeleton and skin were often one.
Much of the world  s great architecture has been constructed of stone because of its beauty, permanence, and availability.
Some of the world  s finest stone architecture can be seen in the ruins of the ancient Inca city of Machu Picchu high in the eastern Andes Mountains of Peru.
The doorways and windows are made possible by placing over the open spaces thick stone beams that support the weight from above.
A structural invention had to be made before the physical limitations of stone could be overcome and new architectural forms could be created.
As a method of spanning space, the arch can support greater weight than a horizontal beam.
Water from rains and melting snows has been accumulating in the Ogallala for the past 30,000 years.
In addition, 40 percent of American grain-fed beef cattle are fattened here.
In the 1930s, wells encountered plentiful water at a depth of about 15 meters; currently, they must be dug to depths of 45 to 60 meters or more.
The situation is most critical in Texas, where the climate is driest, the greatest amount of water is being pumped, and the aquifer contains the least water.
Many have been attempting to conserve water by irrigating less frequently or by switching to crops that require less water.
Others, however, have adopted the philosophy that it is best to use the water while it is still economically profitable to do so and to concentrate on high-value crops such as cotton.
In the face of the upcoming water supply crisis, a number of grandiose schemes have been developed to transport vast quantities of water by canal or pipeline from the Mississippi, the Missouri, or the Arkansas rivers. 
Somewhat more promising have been recent experiments for releasing capillary water (water in the soil) above the water table by injecting compressed air into the ground.
Genetic engineering also may provide a partial solution, as new strains of drought-resistant crops continue to be developed.
Whatever the final answer to the water crisis may be, it is evident that within the High Plains, irrigation water will never again be the abundant, inexpensive resource it was during the agricultural boom years of the mid-twentieth century.
These changes  in plant numbers and the mix of species  are cumulative.
Individual fish may be replaced, but the number of fish will tend to be the same from one year to the next.
At one time, ecologists believed that species diversity made ecosystems stable.
They believed that the greater the diversity the more stable the ecosystem.
Stability can be defined as simply lack of change.
In that case, the climax community would be considered the most stable, since, by definition, it changes the least over time.
Alternatively, stability can be defined as the speed with which an ecosystem returns to a particular form following a major disturbance, such as a fire.
In that case, climax communities would be the most fragile and the least stable, since they can require hundreds of years to return to the climax state.
Once a redwood forest matures, for example, the kinds of species and the number of individuals growing on the forest floor are reduced.
Ecologists are especially interested to know what factors contribute to the resilience of communities because climax communities all over the world are being severely damaged or destroyed by human activities.
Two species of deer have been prevalent in the Puget Sound area of Washington State in the Pacific Northwest of the United States.
Nearly any kind of plant of the forest understory can be part of a deer's diet.
Where the forest inhibits the growth of grass and other meadow plants, the black-tailed deer browses on huckleberry, salal, dogwood, and almost any other shrub or herb.
One compensation for not hibernating is the built-in urge to migrate.
The numbers of deer have fluctuated markedly since the entry of Europeans into Puget Sound country.
The early explorers and settlers told of abundant deer in the early 1800s and yet almost in the same breath bemoaned the lack of this succulent game animal.
Famous explorers of the north American frontier, Lewis and Clark arrived at the mouth of the Columbia River on November 14, 1805, in nearly starved circumstances.
They had experienced great difficulty finding game west of the Rockies and not until the second of December did they kill their first elk.
Later on in the early years of the nineteenth century, when Fort Vancouver became the headquarters of the Hudson's Bay Company, deer populations continued to fluctuate.
David Douglas, Scottish botanical explorer of the 1830s, found a disturbing change in the animal life around the fort during the period between his first visit in 1825 and his final contact with the fort in 1832.
Reduction in numbers of game should have boded ill for their survival in later times.
A worsening of the plight of deer was to be expected as settlers encroached on the land, logging, burning, and clearing, eventually replacing a wilderness landscape with roads, cities, towns, and factories.
No doubt the numbers of deer declined still further.
First, the major predators of deer  wolves, cougar, and lynx  have been greatly reduced in numbers.
Second, conservation has been insured by limiting times for and types of hunting.
But the most profound reason for the restoration of high population numbers has been the fate of the forests.
Great tracts of lowland country deforested by logging, fire, or both have become ideal feeding grounds of deer.
In addition to finding an increase of suitable browse, like huckleberry and vine maple, Arthur Einarsen, longtime game biologist in the Pacific Northwest, found quality of browse in the open areas to be substantially more nutritive.
The earliest discovered traces of art are beads and carvings, and then paintings, from sites dating back to the Upper Paleolithic period.
We might expect that early artistic efforts would be crude, but the cave paintings of Spain and southern France show a marked degree of skill.
Some of those slabs appear to have been painted as much as 28,000 years ago, which suggests that painting in Africa is as old as painting in Europe.
But painting may be even older than that.
The early Australians may have painted on the walls of rock shelters and cliff faces at least 30,000 years ago, and maybe as much as 60,000 years ago. 
The researchers Peter Ucko and Andree Rosenfeld identified three principal locations of paintings in the caves of western Europe: (1) in obviously inhabited rock shelters and cave entrances; (2) in galleries immediately off the inhabited areas of caves; and (3) in the inner reaches of caves, whose difficulty of access has been interpreted by some as a sign that magical-religious activities were performed there. 
Perhaps, like many contemporary peoples, Upper Paleolithic men and women believed that the drawing of a human image could cause death or injury, and if that were indeed their belief, it might explain why human figures are rarely depicted in cave art.
Another explanation for the focus on animals might be that these people sought to improve their luck at hunting.
But if improving their hunting luck was the chief motivation for the paintings, it is difficult to explain why only a few show signs of having been speared.
For example, wild cattle (bovines) and horses are portrayed more often than we would expect by chance, probably because they were larger and heavier (meatier) than other animals in the environment.
In addition, the paintings mostly portray animals that the painters may have feared the most because of their size, speed, natural weapons such as tusks and horns, and the unpredictability of their behavior.
But in that period, when getting food no longer depended on hunting large game animals (because they were becoming extinct), the art ceased to focus on portrayals of animals. 
He believes that as far back as 30,000 B.C., hunters may have used a system of notation, engraved on bone and stone, to mark phases of the Moon.
In addition to other artworks, figurines representing the human female in exaggerated form have also been found at Upper Paleolithic sites.
It has been suggested that these figurines were an ideal type or an expression of a desire for fertility. 
As muddy sediments are pressed together, the gas and small droplets of oil may be squeezed out of the mud and may move into sandy layers nearby.
When an oil pool or field has been discovered, wells are drilled into the ground.
Permanent towers, called derricks, used to be built to handle the long sections of drilling pipe.
When the well reaches a pool, oil usually rises up the well because of its density difference with water beneath it or because of the pressure of expanding gas trapped above it.
Water or steam may be pumped down adjacent wells to help push the oil out.
As oil becomes increasingly difficult to find, the search for it is extended into more-hostile environments.
A significant part of this oil and gas comes from under the North Sea between Great Britain and Norway. 
Of course, there is far more oil underground than can be recovered.
It may be in a pool too small or too far from a potential market to justify the expense of drilling.
Even given the best extraction techniques, only about 30 to 40 percent of the oil in a given pool can be brought to the surface.
Pipelines carrying oil can be broken by faults or landslides, causing serious oil spills.
Offshore platforms may also lose oil, creating oil slicks that drift ashore and foul the beaches, harming the environment.
The Wilmington field near Long Beach, California, has subsided nine meters in 50 years; protective barriers have had to be built to prevent seawater from flooding the area.
The soil is the source of these minerals, which are absorbed by the plant with the water from the soil.
Even nitrogen, which is a gas in its elemental state, is normally absorbed from the soil as nitrate ions.
Mineral deficiencies can often be detected by specific symptoms such as chlorosis (loss of chlorophyll resulting in yellow or white leaf tissue), necrosis (isolated dead patches), anthocyanin formation (development of deep red pigmentation of leaves or stem), stunted growth, and development of woody tissue in an herbaceous plant.
Nitrogen-deficient plants exhibit many of the symptoms just described.
Iron deficiency is characterized by chlorosis between veins in young leaves.
Hydroponics has applications beyond basic research, since it facilitates the growing of greenhouse vegetables during winter.
While mineral deficiencies can limit the growth of plants, an overabundance of certain minerals can be toxic and can also limit growth.
Research has focused on the toxic effects of heavy metals such as lead, cadmium, mercury, and aluminum; however, even copper and zinc, which are essential elements, can become toxic in high concentrations.
They may be herbs, shrubs, or trees.
Many members of the mustard family, spurge family, legume family, and grass family are top hyperaccumulators.
Only recently have investigators considered using these plants to clean up soil and waste sites that have been contaminated by toxic levels of heavy metals Can environmentally friendly approach known as phytoremediation.
This scenario begins with the planting of hyperaccumulating species in the target area, such as an abandoned mine or an irrigation pond contaminated by runoff.
Toxic minerals would first be absorbed by roots but later relocated to the stem and leaves.
A harvest of the shoots would remove the toxic compounds off site to be burned or composted to recover the metal for industrial uses.
After several years of cultivation and harvest, the site would be restored at a cost much lower than the price of excavation and reburial, the standard practice for remediation of contaminated soils.
For examples, in field trials, the plant alpine pennycress removed zinc and cadmium from soils near a zinc smelter, and Indian mustard, native to Pakistan and India, has been effective in reducing levels of selenium salts by 50 percent in contaminated soils.
Speculation on the origin of these Pacific islanders began as soon as outsiders encountered them, in the absence of solid linguistic, archaeological, and biological data, many fanciful and mutually exclusive theories were devised.
For example, British anthropologists G. Elliot Smith and W. J. Perry assumed that only Egyptians would have been skilled enough to navigate and colonize the Pacific.
It is now generally believed that these prerequisites originated with peoples speaking Austronesian languages (a group of several hundred related languages) and began to emerge in Southeast Asia by about 5000 B.C.E.
Just as important, the culture also possessed the basic foundation for an effective maritime adaptation, including outrigger canoes and a variety of fishing techniques that could be effective for overseas voyaging.
Contrary to the arguments of some that much of the pacific was settled by Polynesians accidentally marooned after being lost and adrift, it seems reasonable that this feat was accomplished by deliberate colonization expeditions that set out fully stocked with food and domesticated plants and animals.
Detailed studies of the winds and currents using computer simulations suggest that drifting canoes would have been a most unlikely means of colonizing the Pacific.
The undisputed pre-Columbian presence in Oceania of the sweet potato, which is a New World domesticate, has sometimes been used to support Heyerdahl  s   American Indians in the Pacific   theories.
As Patrick Kirch, an American anthropologist, points out, rather than being brought by rafting South Americans, sweet potatoes might just have easily been brought back by returning Polynesian navigators who could have reached the west coast of South America.
The last event marks the beginning of the Cambrian period.
In fact, fossil beds containing soft-bodied animals have been known for many years. 
This 700-million-year-old formation gives few clues to the origins of modern animals, however, because paleontologists believe it represents an evolutionary experiment that failed.
At one time, the animals present in these fossil beds were assigned to various modern animal groups, but most paleontologists now agree that all Tommotian fossils represent unique body forms that arose in the early Cambrian period and disappeared before the end of the period, leaving no descendants in modern animal groups.
These fossil beds provide evidence of about 32 modern animal groups, plus about 20 other animal body forms that are so different from any modern animals that they cannot be assigned to any one of the modern groups.
Fossil formations like the Burgess Shale show that evolution cannot always be thought of as a slow progression.
Many zoologists believe that it was because so many ecological niches were available with virtually no competition from existing species.
Perhaps another ancient fossil bed of soft-bodied animals from 600-million-year-old seas is awaiting discovery.
Only the last of these was suited at all to the continuous operating of machines, and although waterpower abounded in Lancashire and Scotland and ran grain mills as well as textile mills, it had one great disadvantage: streams flowed where nature intended them to, and water-driven factories had to be located on their banks whether or not the location was desirable for other reasons.
The new age of machinery, in short, could not have been born without a new source of both movable and constant power.
The source had long been known but not exploited.
This   atmospheric engine,   invented by Thomas Savery and vastly improved by his partner, Thomas Newcomen, embodied revolutionary principles, but it was so slow and wasteful of fuel that it could not be employed outside the coal mines for which it had been designed.
In the 1760s, James Watt perfected a separate condenser for the steam, so that the cylinder did not have to be cooled at every stroke; then he devised a way to make the piston turn a wheel and thus convert reciprocating (back and forth) motion into rotary motion.
It liberated industry from dependence on running water.
The ready availability of coal inspired William Murdoch during the 1790s to develop the first new form of nighttime illumination to be discovered in a millennium and a half.
Iron manufacturers, which had starved for fuel while depending on charcoal, also benefited from ever-increasing supplies of coal: blast furnaces with steam-powered bellows turned out more iron and steel for the new machinery.
Steam became the motive force of the Industrial Revolution as coal and iron ore were the raw materials.
Boats could carry heavy weights, but canals could not cross hilly terrain; turnpikes could cross the hills, but the roadbeds could not stand up under great weights.
In some industrial regions, heavily laden wagons, with flanged wheels, were being hauled by horses along metal rails; and the stationary steam engine was puffing in the factory and mine.
Another generation passed before inventors succeeded in combining these ingredients, by putting the engine on wheels and the wheels on the rails, so as to provide a machine to take the place of the horse.
This was before the steam locomotive, and canal building was at its height.
The companies building the canals to transport coal needed surveyors to help them find the coal deposits worth mining as well as to determine the best courses for the canals.
In 1815 he published the first modern geological map,   A Map of the Strata of England and Wales with a Part of Scotland,   a map so meticulously researched that it can still be used today.
Ever since people had begun to catalog the strata in particular outcrops, there had been the hope that these could somehow be used to calculate geological time.
But as more and more accumulations of strata were cataloged in more and more places, it became clear that the sequences of rocks sometimes differed from region to region and that no rock type was ever going to become a reliable time marker throughout the world.
Quartz is quartz  a silicon ion surrounded by four oxygen ions  there  s no difference at all between two-million-year-old Pleistocene quartz and Cambrian quartz created over 500 million years ago.
As he collected fossils from strata throughout England, Smith began to see that the fossils told a different story from the rocks.
While rock between two consistent strata might in one place be shale and in another sandstone, the fossils in that shale or sandstone were always the same.
Not only could Smith identify rock strata by the fossils they contained, he could also see a pattern emerging: certain fossils always appear in more ancient sediments, while others begin to be seen as the strata become more recent.
It was actually a principle of floral succession as well, because plants showed the same transformation through time as did fauna.
Limestone may be found in the Cambrian or  300 million years later  in the Jurassic strata, but a trilobite  the ubiquitous marine arthropod that had its birth in the Cambrian  will never be found in Jurassic strata, nor a dinosaur in the Cambrian.
What do you remember about your life before you were three?
Few people can remember anything that happened to them in their early years.
Adults' memories of the next few years also tend to be scanty.
Most people remember only a few events  usually ones that were meaningful and distinctive, such as being hospitalized or a sibling  s birth. 
How might this inability to recall early experiences be explained?
Children two and a half to three years old remember experiences that occurred in their first year, and eleven month olds remember some events a year later.
While such repression may occur, people cannot remember ordinary events from the infant and toddler periods either.
Maturation of the frontal lobes of the brain continues throughout early childhood, and this part of the brain may be critical for remembering particular episodes in ways that can be retrieved later.
Through hearing stories with a clear beginning, middle, and ending children may learn to extract the gist of events in ways that they will be able to describe many years later.
A third likely explanation for infantile amnesia involves incompatibilities between the ways in which infants encode information and the ways in which older children and adults retrieve it.
Whether people can remember an event depends critically on the fit between the way in which they earlier encoded the information and the way in which they later attempt to retrieve it.
The better able the person is to reconstruct the perspective from which the material was encoded, the more likely that recall will be successful. 
This view is supported by a variety of factors that can create mismatches between very young children's encoding and older children's and adults' retrieval efforts.
Physiological immaturity may be part of why infants and toddlers do not form extremely enduring memories, even when they hear stories that promote such remembering in preschoolers.
Conversely, improved encoding of what they hear may help them better understand and remember stories and thus make the stories more useful for remembering future events.
Thus, all three explanations  physiological maturation, hearing and producing stories about past events, and improved encoding of key aspects of events  seem likely to be involved in overcoming infantile amnesia.
Another task for the Glomar Challenger  s scientists was to try to determine the origin of the domelike masses buried deep beneath the Mediterranean seafloor.
These structures had been detected years earlier by echo-sounding instruments, but they had never been penetrated in the course of drilling.
Were they salt domes such as are common along the United States Gulf Coast, and if so, why should there have been so much solid crystalline salt beneath the floor of the Mediterranean? 
With question such as these clearly before them, the scientists aboard the Glomar Challenger processed to the Mediterranean to search for the answers.
The sample consisted of pebbles of hardened sediment that had once been soft, deep-sea mud, as well as granules of gypsum and fragments of volcanic rock.
Sediment above and below the gypsum layer contained tiny marine fossils, indicating open-ocean conditions.
Interbedded with the salt were thin layers of what appeared to be windblown silt.
Crustal movements closed the straits, and the landlocked Mediterranean began to evaporate.
As evaporation continued, the remaining brine (salt water) became so dense that the calcium sulfate of the hard layer was precipitated.
Soon layer of oceanic ooze began to accumulate above the old hard layer.
The psychological controls were built on fear and punishment  on the absolute certainty that anyone or anything that threatened the authority of Rome would be utterly destroyed.
For many, Rome is at best the imitator and the continuator of Greece on a larger scale.
It was absolutely accepted that an educated Roman should be fluent in Greek.
Yet it would be wrong to suggest that Rome was somehow a junior partner in Greco-Roman civilization.
It was no accident that many leading Roman soldiers and statesmen were writers of high caliber.
It may have developed independently, but many scholars believe that the spread of agriculture and iron throughout Africa linked it to the major centers of the Near East and Mediterranean world.
Once the idea of planting diffused, Africans began to develop their own crops, such as certain varieties of rice, and they demonstrated a continued receptiveness to new imports.
This was an important innovation, because the camel  s abilities to thrive in harsh desert conditions and to carry large loads cheaply made it an effective and efficient means of transportation.
Most of Africa presents a curious case in which societies moved directly from a technology of stone to iron without passing through the intermediate stage of copper or bronze metallurgy, although some early copper-working sites have been found in West Africa.
Evidence of iron making has been found in Nigeria, Ghana, and Mali.
Iron hoes, which made the land more productive, and iron weapons, which made the warrior more powerful, had symbolic meaning in a number of West Africa societies.
Their migration may have been set in motion by an increase in population caused by a movement of peoples fleeing the desiccation, or drying up, of the Sahara.
They spoke a language, proto-Bantu (  Bantu   means   the people  ), which is the parent tongue of a language of a large number of Bantu languages still spoken throughout sub-Sahara Africa.
Why and how these people spread out into central and southern Africa remains a mystery, but archaeologists believe that their iron weapons allowed them to conquer their hunting-gathering opponents, who still used stone implements.
The city of Teotihuac  n, which lay about 50 kilometers northeast of modern-day Mexico City, began its growth by 200-100 B.C.
At its height, between about A.D. 150 and 700, it probably had a population of more than 125,000 people and covered at least 20 square kilometers.
It had over 2,000 apartment complexes, a great market, a large number of industrial workshops, an administrative center, a number of massive religious edifices, and a regular grid pattern of streets and buildings.
Prior to 200 B.C., a number of relatively small centers coexisted in and near the Valley of Mexico.
With Cuicuilco eliminated as a potential rival, any one of a number of relatively modest towns might have emerged as a leading economic and political power in Central Mexico.
The hard volcanic stone was a resource that had been in great demand for many years, at least since the rise of the Olmecs (a people who flourished between 1200 and 400 B.C.
Moreover, recent research on obsidian tools found at Olmec sites has shown that some of the obsidian obtained by the Olmecs originated near Teotihuac  n. Teotihuac  n obsidian must have been recognized as a valuable commodity for many centuries before the great city arose.
Finally, the growing population was probably fed by increasing the number and size of irrigated fields.
More irrigation works would have to be built to feed the growing population, and this resulted in more power and wealth for the elite.
Over a period of about 100,000 years, while the seas pulled back, climates around the world became dramatically more extreme: warmer days, cooler nights; hotter summers, colder winters.
Perhaps dinosaurs could not tolerate these extreme temperature changes and became extinct.
It  s hard to understand why they would not be affected, whereas dinosaurs were left too crippled to cope, especially if, as some scientists believe, dinosaurs were warm-blooded.
Many plants and animals disappear abruptly from the fossil record as one moves from layers of rock documenting the end of the Cretaceous up into rocks representing the beginning of the Cenozoic (the era after the Mesozoic).
Ir has not been common at Earth  s since the very beginning of the planet  s history.
These calculations suggest that a period of about one million years would have been required.
Their calculations show that the impact kicked up a dust cloud that cut off sunlight for several months, inhibiting photosynthesis in plants; decreased surface temperatures on continents to below freezing; caused extreme episodes of acid rain; and significantly raised long-term global temperatures through the greenhouse effect.
They bear a strong resemblance to river systems on Earth, and geologists think that they are dried-up beds of long-gone rivers that once carried rainfall on Mars from the mountains down into the valleys.
The onrushing water arising from these flash floods likely also formed the odd teardrop-shaped   islands   (resembling the miniature versions seen in the wet sand of our beaches at low tide) that have been found on the plains close to the ends of the outflow channels.
Judging from the width and depth of the channels, the flow rates must have been truly enormous  perhaps as much as a hundred times greater than the 105 tons per second carried by the great Amazon river.
A 2003 Mars Global Surveyor image shows what mission specialists think may be a delta  a fan-shaped network of channels and sediments where a river once flowed into a larger body of water, in this case a lake filling a crater in the southern highlands.
A computer-generated view of the Martian north polar region shows the extent of what may have been an ancient ocean covering much of the northern lowlands.
The Hellas Basin, which measures some 3,000 kilometers across and has a floor that lies nearly 9 kilometers below the basin  s rim, is another candidate for an ancient Martian sea.
Proponents point to features such as the terraced   beaches   shown in one image, which could conceivably have been left behind as a lake or ocean evaporated and the shoreline receded.
But detractors maintain that the terracescould also have been created by geological activity, perhaps related to the geologic forces that depressed the Northern Hemisphere far below the level of the south, in which case they have nothing whatever to do with Martian water.
Furthermore, Mars Global Surveyor data released in 2003 seem to indicate that the Martian surface contains too few carbonate rock layers  layers containing compounds of carbon and oxygen  that should have been formed in abundance in an ancient ocean.
The answer may be that virtually all the water on Mars is now locked in the permafrost layer under the surface, with more contained in the planet  s polar caps.
It has long been accepted that the Americas were colonized by a migration of peoples from Asia, slowly traveling across a land bridge called Beringia (now the Bering Strait between northeastern Asia and Alaska) during the last Ice Age.
It was this midcontinental corridor between two massive ice sheets Cthe Laurentide to the east and the Cordilleran to the west Cthat enabled the southward migration.
But belief in this ice-free corridor began to crumble when paleoecologist Glen MacDonald demonstrated that some of the most important radiocarbon dates used to support the existence of an ice-free corridor were incorrect.
He persuasively argued that such an ice-free corridor did not exist until much later, when the continental ice began its final retreat. 
Until the early 1970s,most archaeologists did not consider the coast a possible migration route into the Americas because geologists originally believed that during the last Ice Age the entire Northwest Coast was covered by glacial ice.
It had been assumed that the ice extended westward from the Alaskan/Canadian mountains to the very edge of the continental shelf, the flat, submerged part of the continent that extends into the ocean.
The most influential proponent of the coastal migration route has been Canadian archaeologist Knut Fladmark.
Fladmark  s hypothesis received additional support form from the fact that the greatest diversity in native American languages occurs along the west coast of the Americas, suggesting that this region has been settled the longest. 
One study suggests that except for a 250-mile coastal area between southwestern British Columbia and Washington State, the Northwest Coast of North America was largely free of ice by approximately 16,000 years ago.
Vast areas along the coast may have been deglaciated beginning around 16,000 years ago, possibly providing a coastal corridor for the movement of plants, animals, and humans sometime between 13,000 and 14,000 years ago. 
The coastal hypothesis has gained increasing support in recent years because the remains of large land animals, such as caribou and brown bears, have been found in southeastern Alaska dating between 10,000 and 12,500 years ago.
This is the time period in which most scientists formerly believed the area to be inhospitable for humans.
It has been suggested that if the environment were capable of supporting breeding populations of bears, there would have been enough food resources to support humans.
Fladmark and other believe that the first human colonization of America occurred by boat along the Northwest Coast during the very late Ice Age, possibly as early as 14,000 years ago.
The most recent geologic evidence indicates that it may have been possible for people to colonize ice-free regions along the continental shelf that were still exposed by the lower sea level between13,000 and 14,000 years ago.
Because of the barrier of ice to the east, the Pacific Ocean to the west, and populated areas to the north, there may have been a greater impetus for people to move in a southerly direction.
Teachers, it is thought, benefit from the practice of reflection, the conscious act of thinking deeply about and carefully examining the interactions and events within their own classrooms.
Educators T. Wildman and J. Niles (1987) describe a scheme for developing reflective practice in experienced teachers.
They were concerned that many would be   drawn to these new, refreshing   conceptions of teaching only to find that the void between the abstractions and the realities of teacher reflection is too great to bridge.
They describe the initial understanding in the teachers with whom they were working as being   utilitarian    and not rich or detailed enough to drive systematic reflection.
Helping this group of teachers to revise their thinking about classroom events became central.
The researchers estimate that the initial training of the teachers to view events objectively took between 20 and 30 hours, with the same number of hours again being required to practice the skills of reflection. 
The teachers in the program described how they found it difficult to put aside the immediate demands of others in order to give themselves the time they needed to develop their reflective skills.
Wildman and Niles make a summary comment:   Perhaps the most important thing we learned is the idea of the teacher-as-reflective-practitioner will not happen simply because it is a good or even compelling idea.   
Zeichner and Liston (1987) point out the inconsistency between the role of the teacher as a (reflective) professional decision maker and the more usual role of the teacher as a technician, putting into practice the ideas of theirs.
Few have directly questioned what might lead a teacher to want to become reflective.
There appear to be many unexplored matters about the motivation to reflect  C for example, the value of externally motivated reflection as opposed to that of teachers who might reflect by habit. 
Then, as blazing sunshine alternated with drenching rains, the harsh, barren surfaces of the black rocks slowly began to soften.
A few of these spores found a toehold on the dark, forbidding rocks and grew and began to work their transformation upon the land.
Lichens helped to speed the decomposition of the hard rock surfaces, preparing a soft bed of soil that was abundantly supplied with minerals that had been carried in the molten rock from the bowels of Earth.
Vast numbers of them fall on the ground beneath the mother plants.
By force of sheer numbers, however, the mosses and ferns reached Hawaii, survived, and multiplied.
Some species developed great size, becoming tree ferns that even now grow in the Hawaiian forests. 
Many millions of years after ferns evolved (but long before the Hawaiian Islands were born from the sea), another kind of flora evolved on Earth: the seed-bearing plants.
One type of seed-bearing plant, the angiosperm, includes all forms of blooming vegetation.
These new characteristics offered better ways for the seed to move to new habitats.
Remarkably resistant to the vicissitudes of ocean travel, they can survive prolonged immersion in saltwater when they come to rest on warm beaches and the conditions are favorable, the seed coats soften.
(Grasses are simple forms of angiosperms that bear their encapsulated seeds on long stalks.)
In a surprisingly short time, angiosperms filled many of the land areas on Hawaii that had been bare.
The function and status of ceramics in China varied from dynasty to dynasty, so they may be utilitarian, burial, trade-collectors', or even ritual objects, according to their quality and the era in which they were made.
The earliest ceramics were fired to earthenware temperatures, but as early as the fifteenth century B.C., high-temperature stonewares were being made with glazed surfaces.
Whitewares produced in Hebei and Henan provinces from the seventh to the tenth centuries evolved into the highly prized porcelains of the Song dynasty (AD.
Trade between the West and the settled and prosperous Chinese dynasties introduced new forms and different technologies.
In the seventeenth century, the trading activities of the Dutch East India Company resulted in vast quantities of decorated Chinese porcelain being brought to Europe, which stimulated and influenced the work of a wide variety of wares, notably Delft.
Just as painted designs on Greek pots may seem today to be purely decorative, whereas in fact they were carefully and precisely worked out so that at the time, their meaning was clear, so it is with Chinese pots.
Only when European decorative themes were introduced did these meanings become obscured or even lost.
We need therefore to know how much the climate can vary of its own accord in order to interpret with confidence the extent to which recent changes are natural as opposed to being the result of human activities.
What we do know is that as we include longer time intervals, the record shows increasing evidence of slow swings in climate between different regimes.
To build up a better picture of fluctuations appreciably further back in time requires us to use proxy records.
Over long periods of time, substances whose physical and chemical properties change with the ambient climate at the time can be deposited in a systematic way to provide a continuous record of changes in those properties overtime, sometimes for hundreds or thousands of years.
Generally, the layering occurs on an annual basis, hence the observed changes in the records can be dated.
Information on temperature, rainfall, and other aspects of the climate that can be inferred from the systematic changes in properties is usually referred to as proxy data.
Proxy temperature records have been reconstructed from ice core drilled out of the central Greenland ice cap, calcite shells embedded in layered lake sediments in Western Europe, ocean floor sediment cores from the tropical Atlantic Ocean, ice cores from Peruvian glaciers, and ice cores from eastern Antarctica.
What the proxy records make abundantly clear is that there have been significant natural changes in the climate over timescales longer than a few thousand years.
These include the chaotic fluctuations of the atmosphere, the slower but equally erratic behavior of the oceans, changes in the land surfaces, and the extent of ice and snow.
Also included will be any variations that have arisen from volcanic activity, solar activity, and, possibly, human activities.
Thus we need to be able to include these in our deliberations.
Some current analyses conclude that volcanoes and solar activity explain quite a considerable amount of the observed variability in the period from the seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries, but that they cannot be invoked to explain the rapid warming in recent decades.
Among the key factors behind this growth were increased agricultural productivity and an expansion of trade.
Much of the potential for European economic development lay in what at first glance would seem to have been only sleepy villages.
Members of poor peasant families spun or wove cloth and linens at home for scant remuneration in an attempt to supplement meager family income.
Bills of exchange, which had their origins in medieval Italy, were promissory notes (written promises to pay a specified amount of money by a certain date) that could be sold to third parties.
Bills of exchange contributed to the development of banks, as exchangers began to provide loans.
Not until the eighteenth century, however, did such banks as the Bank of Amsterdam and the Bank of England begin to provide capital for business investment.
The rapid expansion in international trade also benefitted from an infusion of capital, stemming largely from gold and silver brought by Spanish vessels from the Americas.
Moreover an increased credit supply was generated by investments and loans by bankers and wealthy merchants to states and by joint-stock partnerships  an English innovation (the first major company began in 1600).
Unlike short-term financial cooperation between investors for a single commercial undertaking, joint-stock companies provided permanent funding of capital by drawing on the investments of merchants and other investors who purchased shares in the company.
In fact, a lack of understanding concerning the purposes of Egyptian art has often led it to be compared unfavorably with the art of other cultures: Why did the Egyptians not develop sculpture in which the body turned and twisted through space like classical Greek statuary?
They were designed to be put in places where these beings could manifest themselves in order to be the recipients of ritual actions.
Other statues were designed to be placed within an architectural setting, for instance, in front of the monumental entrance gateways to temples known as pylons, or in pillared courts, where they would be placed against or between pillars: their frontality worked perfectly within the architectural context.
The stone between the arms and the body and between the legs in standing figures or the legs and the seat in seated ones was not normally cut away.
The arms could be held away from the body and carry separate items in their hands; there is no back pillar.
The effect is altogether lighter and freer than that achieved in stone, but because both perform the same function, formal wooden and metal statues still display frontality.
Apart from statues representing deities, kings, and named members of the elite that can be called formal, there is another group of three-dimensional representations that depicts generic figures, frequently servants, from the nonelite population.
Many are made to be put in the tombs of the elite in order to serve the tomb owners in the afterlife.
Unlike formal statues that are limited to static poses of standing, sitting, and kneeling, these figures depict a wide range of actions, such as grinding grain, baking bread, producing pots, and making music, and they are shown in appropriate poses, bending and squatting as they carry out their tasks.
Early in his research, Kramer found that caged migratory birds became very restless at about the time they would normally have begun migration in the wild.
They seemed to be using the Sun as a compass to determine direction.
However, its position with respect to the surroundings could be changed by revolving either the inner cage containing the birds or the outer walls, which served as the background.
A planetarium is essentially a theater with a domelike ceiling onto which a night sky can be projected for any night of the year.
A classic example is noisy begging by nestling songbirds when a parent returns to the nest with food.
In fact, when tapes of begging tree swallows were played at an artificial swallow nest containing an egg, the egg in that   noisy   nest was taken or destroyed by predators before the egg in a nearby quiet nest in 29 of 37 trials.
Further evidence for the costs of begging comes from a study of differences in the begging calls of warbler species that nest on the ground versus those that nest in the relative safety of trees.
The young of ground-nesting warblers produce begging cheeps of higher frequencies than do their tree-nesting relatives.
These higher-frequency sounds do not travel as far, and so may better conceal the individuals producing them, who are especially vulnerable to predators in their ground nests.
David Haskell created artificial nests with clay eggs and placed them on the ground beside a tape recorder that played the begging calls of either tree-nesting or of ground-nesting warblers.
The eggs   advertised   by the tree-nesters' begging calls were found bitten significantly more often than the eggs associated with the ground-nesters' calls.
The hypothesis that begging calls have evolved properties that reduce their potential for attracting predators yields a prediction: baby birds of species that experience high rates of nest predation should produce softer begging signals of higher frequency than nestlings of other species less often victimized by nest predators.
This prediction was supported by data collected in one survey of 24 species from an Arizona forest, more evidence that predator pressure favors the evolution of begging calls that are hard to detect and pinpoint.
Given that predators can make it costly to beg for food, what benefit do begging nestlings derive from their communications?
One possibility is that a noisy baby bird provides accurate signals of its real hunger and good health, making it worthwhile for the listening parent to give it food in a nest where several other offspring are usually available to be fed.
When experimentally deprived baby robins are placed in a nest with normally fed siblings, the hungry nestlings beg more loudly than usual  but so do their better-fed siblings, though not as loudly as the hungrier birds.
If parent birds use begging intensity to direct food to healthy offspring capable of vigorous begging, then parents should make food delivery decisions on the basis of their offsprings   calls.
Indeed, if you take baby tree swallows out of a nest for an hour feeding half the set and starving the other half, when the birds are replaced in the nest, the starved youngsters beg more loudly than the fed birds, and the parent birds feed the active beggars more than those who beg less vigorously.
As these experiments show, begging apparently provides a signal of need that parents use to make judgments about which offspring can benefit most from a feeding.
But the question arises, why don't nestlings beg loudly when they aren't all that hungry?
The answer lies apparently not in the increased energy costs of exaggerated begging  such energy costs are small relative to the potential gain in calories  but rather in the damage that any successful cheater would do to its siblings, which share genes with one another.
An individual's success in propagating his or her genes can be affected by more than just his or her own personal reproductive success.
Because close relatives have many of the same genes, animals that harm their close relatives may in effect be destroying some of their own genes.
Therefore, a begging nestling that secures food at the expense of its siblings might actually leave behind fewer copies of its genes overall than it might otherwise.
When a left hand has been stenciled, this implies that the artist was right-handed, and vice versa.
Of 158 stencils in the French cave of Gargas, 136 have been identified as left, and only 22 as right; right-handedness was therefore heavily predominant.
Most engravings, for example, are best lit from the left, as befits the work of right-handed artists, who generally prefer to have the light source on the left so that the shadow of their hand does not fall on the tip of the engraving tool or brush.
Clues to right-handedness can also be found by other methods.
Similar observations have been made on other Neanderthal skeletons such as La Ferrassie I and Neanderthal itself.
Right-handed soldiers tend to be wounded on the left.
Tools themselves can be revealing.
The late Ice Age rope found in the French cave of Lascaux consists of fibers spiraling to the right, and was therefore tressed by a righthander.
Occasionally one can determine whether stone tools were used in the right hand or the left, and it is even possible to assess how far back this feature can be traced.
In stone toolmaking experiments, Nick Toth, a right-hander, held the core (the stone that would become the tool) in his left hand and the hammer stone in his right.
Toth has applied these criteria to the similarly made pebble tools from a number of early sites (before 1.5 million years) at Koobi Fora, Kenya, probably made by Homo habilis.
Despite all the highly visible technological developments in theatrical and home delivery of the moving image that have occurred over the decades since then, no single innovation has come close to being regarded as a similar kind of watershed.
In nearly every language, however the words are phrased, the most basic division in cinema history lies between films that are mute and films that speak.
In many instances, spectators in the era before recorded sound experienced elaborate aural presentations alongside movies' visual images, from the Japanese benshi (narrators) crafting multivoiced dialogue narratives to original musical compositions performed by symphony-size orchestras in Europe and the United States.
The introduction of new screen formats was put off for a quarter century, and color, though utilized over the next two decades for special productions, also did not become a norm until the 1950s.
Though it may be difficult to imagine from a later perspective, a strain of critical opinion in the 1920s predicted that sound film would be a technical novelty that would soon fade from sight, just as had many previous attempts, dating well back before the First World War, to link images with recorded sound.
To be sure, their evaluation of the technical flaws in 1920s sound experiments was not so far off the mark, yet they neglected to take into account important new forces in the motion picture field that, in a sense, would not take no for an answer.
Their competition and collaboration were creating the broadcasting industry in the United States, beginning with the introduction of commercial radio programming in the early 1920s.
In 1929 the United States motion picture industry released more than 300 sound films  a rough figure, since a number were silent films with music tracks, or films prepared in dual versions, to take account of the many cinemas not yet wired for sound.
In Europe it took a little longer, mainly because there were more small producers for whom the costs of sound were prohibitive, and in other parts of the world problems with rights or access to equipment delayed the shift to sound production for a few more years (though cinemas in major cities may have been wired in order to play foreign sound films).
These rivers and river systems are known as "exogenous" because their sources lie outside the arid zone.
The desert sections of long rivers respond several months after rain has fallen outside the desert, so that peak flows may be in the dry season.
Most desert streambeds are normally dry, but they occasionally receive large flows of water and sediment.
But only a small fraction of groundwater enters the hydrological cycle  feeding the flows of streams, maintaining lake levels, and being recharged (or refilled) through surface flows and rainwater.
In recent years, groundwater has become an increasingly important source of freshwater for desert dwellers.
Such programs are much needed because in many arid lands there is only a vague idea of the extent of groundwater resources.
Large quantities of water may also be stored in limestones when joints and cracks have been enlarged to form cavities.
Most limestone and sandstone aquifers are deep and extensive but may contain groundwaters that are not being recharged.
Most shallow aquifers in sand and gravel deposits produce lower yields, but they can be rapidly recharged.
The term "fossil" describes water that has been present for several thousand years.
These aquifers became saturated more than 10,000 years ago and are no longer being recharged.
The rate of movement may be very slow: in the Indus plain, the movement of saline (salty) groundwaters has still not reached equilibrium after 70 years of being tapped.
The mineral content of groundwater normally increases with the depth, but even quite shallow aquifers can be highly saline.
Moreover, our humanness must be sustained through social interaction  and fairly constantly so.
When an association continues long enough for two people to become linked together by a relatively stable set of expectations, it is called a relationship.
Sociologists have built on the distinction between expressive and instrumental ties to distinguish between two types of groups: primary and secondary.
A number of conditions enhance the likelihood that primary groups will arise.
In small groups we have a better chance to initiate contact and establish rapport with them.
Sociologists view primary groups as bridges between individuals and the larger society because they transmit, mediate, and interpret a society's cultural patterns and provide the sense of oneness so critical for social solidarity.
Second, primary groups are fundamental because they provide the settings in which we meet most of our personal needs.
Within them, we experience companionship, love, security, and an overall sense of well-being.
For example, the stronger the primary group ties of a sports team playing together, the better their record is.
Third, primary groups are fundamental because they serve as powerful instruments for social control.
Their members command and dispense many of the rewards that are so vital to us and that make our lives seem worthwhile.
Should the use of rewards fail, members can frequently win by rejecting or threatening to ostracize those who deviate from the primary group's norms.
For instance, some social groups employ shunning (a person can remain in the community, but others are forbidden to interact with the person) as a device to bring into line individuals whose behavior goes beyond that allowed by the particular group.
By providing us with definitions of situations, they elicit from our behavior that conforms to group-devised meanings.
Survival and successful reproduction usually require the activities of animals to be coordinated with predictable events around them.
The relations between animal activity and these periods, particularly for the daily rhythms, have been of such interest and importance that a huge amount of work has been done on them and the special research field of chronobiology has emerged.
Indeed, stability of the biological clock's period is one of its major features, even when the organism's environment is subjected to considerable changes in factors, such as temperature, that would be expected to affect biological activity strongly.
The disorienting effects of this mismatch between external time cues and internal schedules may persist, like our jet lag, for several days or weeks until certain cues such as the daylight/darkness cycle reset the organism's clock to synchronize with the daily rhythm of the new environment.
Such an external cue not only coordinates an animal's daily rhythms with particular features of the local solar day but also  because it normally does so day after day-seems to keep the internal clock's period close to that of Earth's rotation.
This drift has been studied extensively in many animals and in biological activities ranging from the hatching of fruit fly eggs to wheel running by squirrels.
For instance, if a homing pigeon is to navigate with its Sun compass, its clock must be properly set by cues provided by the daylight/darkness cycle.
In the study of perceptual abilities of infants, a number of techniques are used to determine infants' responses to various stimuli.
The difference between the two measures provides the researcher with an indication of the level and duration of the response to the stimulus.
Similarly, changes in the infant's general level of motor activity   turning the head, blinking the eyes, crying, and so forth    have been used by researchers as visual indicators of the infant's perceptual abilities.
First, the observation may be unreliable in that two or more observers may not agree that the particular response occurred, or to what degree it occurred.
Often the rapid and diffuse movements of the infant make it difficult to get an accurate record of the number of responses.
The third, and most potent, limitation is that it is not possible to be certain that the infant's response was due to the stimulus presented or to a change from no stimulus to a stimulus.
The infant may be responding to aspects of the stimulus different than those identified by the investigator.
Therefore, when observational assessment is used as a technique for studying infant perceptual abilities, care must be taken not to overgeneralize from the data or to rely on one or two studies as conclusive evidence of a particular perceptual ability of the infant.
Observational assessment techniques have become much more sophisticated, reducing the limitations just presented.
Precise measurements can be made of the length and frequency of the infant's attention between two stimuli.
Heart and respiration monitors provide the investigator with the number of heartbeats or breaths taken when a new stimulus is presented.
As stimuli were presented, changes in the infant's sucking behavior were recorded.
Increases in the number of sucks were used as an indicator of the infant's attention to or preference for a given visual display.
The first is the habituation-dishabituation technique, in which a single stimulus is presented repeatedly to the infant until there is a measurable decline (habituation) in whatever attending behavior is being observed.
The habituation-dishabituation paradigm has been used most extensively with studies of auditory and olfactory perception in infants.
The second technique relies on evoked potentials, which are electrical brain responses that may be related to a particular stimulus because of where they originate.
Each of the preceding techniques provides the researcher with evidence that the infant can detect or discriminate between stimuli.
Young children are trusting of commercial advertisements in the media, and advertisers have sometimes been accused of taking advantage of this trusting outlook.
Consumer protection groups and parents believe that children are largely ill-equipped to recognize such techniques and that often exaggeration is used at the expense of product information.
Claims such as "the best" or "better than" can be subjective and misleading; even adults may be unsure as to their meaning.
For example, the claim that breakfast cereal has a health benefit may be accompanied by the disclaimer "when part of a nutritionally balanced breakfast."
The author George Comstock suggested that less than a quarter of children between the ages of six and eight years old understood standard disclaimers used in many toy advertisements and that disclaimers are more readily comprehended when presented in both audio and visual formats.
Children have strong imaginations and the use of fantasy brings their ideas to life, but children may not be adept enough to realize that what they are viewing is unreal.
Advertisements for breakfast cereals have, for many years, been found to be especially fond of fantasy techniques, with almost nine out of ten including such content.
Generally, there is uncertainty as to whether very young children can distinguish between fantasy and reality in advertising.
The intention is for the positively perceived attributes of the celebrity to be transferred to the advertised product and for the two to become automatically linked in the audience's mind.
In the recent past, the role of celebrities in advertising to children has often been conflated with the concept of host selling.
The psychologist Dale Kunkel showed that the practice of host selling reduced children's ability to distinguish between advertising and program material.
Researcher Charles Atkin found that children believe that the characters used to advertise breakfast cereals are knowledgeable about cereals, and children accept such characters as credible sources of nutritional information.
This view is inaccurate, and the reason proves to be important.
That is, while there does tend to be a rainy season from May to October, there is also a dry season from January through April.
If one focuses on the wet months, one calls the Maya homeland a "seasonal tropical forest"; if one focuses on the dry months, one could instead describe it as a "seasonal desert."
From north to south in the Yucatan Peninsula, where the Maya lived, rainfall ranges from 18 to 100 inches (457 to 2,540 millimeters) per year, and the soils become thicker, so that the southern peninsula was agriculturally more productive and supported denser populations.
But rainfall in the Maya homeland is unpredictably variable between years; some recent years have had three or four times more rain than other years.
The ancient Maya were presumably more experienced and did better, but nevertheless they too must have faced risks of crop failures from droughts and hurricanes.
In low-elevation north coastal areas without sinkholes, the Maya would have been able to get down to the water table by digging wells up to 75 feet (22 meters) deep.
But the inhabitants of Tikal and other cities dependent on reservoirs for drinking water would still have been in deep trouble if 18 months passed without rain in a prolonged drought.
A shorter drought in which they exhausted their stored food supplies might already have gotten them in deep trouble, because growing crops required rain rather than reservoirs.
Here, the horse was already becoming the animal of prestige in many regions, though sheep, goats, and cattle could also play a vital role.
All else being equal, this means they must exploit larger areas of land than do agriculturalists to secure the same amount of food, clothing, and other necessities.
The remarkable mobility and range of pastoral societies explain, in part, why so many linguists have argued that the Indo-European languages began their astonishing expansionist career not among farmers in Anatolia (present-day Turkey), but among early pastoralists from Inner Eurasia.
Anatolia, but among the foraging communities of the cultures in the region of the Don and Dnieper rivers, which took up stock breeding and began to exploit the neighboring steppes.
Such rules limit variations in accumulated material goods between pastoralist households (though they may also encourage a taste for portable goods of high value such as silks or jewelry).
Inequalities of gender have also existed in pastoralist societies, but they seem to have been softened by the absence of steep hierarchies of wealth in most communities, and also by the requirement that women acquire most of the skills of men, including, often, their military skills.
A warm-blooded turtle may seem to be a contradiction in terms.
Nonetheless, an adult leatherback can maintain a body temperature of between 25 and 26  C (77-79  F) in seawater that is only 8  C (46.4  F).
A leatherback may be able to pick up some body heat by basking at the surface; its dark, almost black body color may help it to absorb solar radiation.
Muscular activity helps, too, and an actively swimming green turtle may be 7  C (12.6  F) warmer than the waters it swims through.
Gigantothermy, though, would not be enough to keep a leatherback warm in cold northern waters.
It is not enough for whales, which supplement it with a thick layer of insulating blubber (fat).
Leatherbacks do not have blubber, but they do have a reptilian equivalent: thick, oil-saturated skin, with a layer of fibrous, fatty tissue just beneath it.
Because the flippers are comparatively thin and blade-like, they are the one part of the leatherback that is likely to become chilled.
In a countercurrent exchange system, the blood vessels carrying cooled blood from the flippers run close enough to the blood vessels carrying warm blood from the body to pick up some heat from the warmer blood vessels; thus, the heat is transferred from the outgoing to the ingoing vessels before it reaches the flipper itself.
We do not know how old, or how large, a leatherback has to be before it can switch from a cold-blooded to a warm-blooded mode of life.
Cases in which many species become extinct within a geologically short interval of time are called mass extinctions.
The Permian event has attracted much less attention than other mass extinctions because mostly unfamiliar species perished at that time.
Biological hypotheses include ecological changes brought about by the evolution of cooperation between insects and flowering plants or of bottom-feeding predators in the oceans.
Some of the proposed mechanisms required a very brief period during which all extinctions suddenly took place; other mechanisms would be more likely to have taken place more gradually, over an extended period, or at different times on different continents.
American paleontologists David Raup and John Sepkoski, who have studied extinction rates in a number of fossil groups, suggest that episodes of increased extinction have recurred periodically, approximately every 26 million years since the mid-Cretaceous period.
The force of collision spewed large amounts of debris into the atmosphere, darkening the skies for several years before the finer particles settled.
Debris thrown into the atmosphere by an asteroid collision would presumably contain large amounts of iridium, and atmospheric currents would carry this material all over the globe.
A search of sedimentary deposits that span the boundary between the Cretaceous and Tertiary periods shows that there is a dramatic increase in the abundance of iridium briefly and precisely at this boundary.
This iridium anomaly offers strong support for the Alvarez hypothesis even though no asteroid itself has ever been recovered.
An asteroid of this size would be expected to leave an immense crater, even if the asteroid itself was disintegrated by the impact.
To date, several such secondary craters have been found along Mexico  s Yucatan Peninsula, and heat-shocked quartz has been found both in Mexico and in Haiti.
A location called Chicxulub, along the Yucatan coast, has been suggested as the primary impact site.
As the air space around them is lessened by compaction and melting, the grains become denser.
With further melting, refreezing, and increased weight from newer snowfall above, the snow reaches a granular recrystallized stage intermediate between flakes and ice known as firn.
With additional time, pressure, and refrozen meltwater from above, the small firn granules become larger, interlocked crystals of blue glacial ice.
When the ice is thick enough, usually over 30 meters, the weight of the snow and firn will cause the ice crystals toward the bottom to become plastic and to flow outward or downward from the area of snow accumulation.
For a glacier to grow or maintain its mass, there must be sufficient snowfall to match or exceed the annual loss through melting, evaporation, and calving, which occurs when the glacier loses solid chunks as icebergs to the sea or to large lakes.
Two percent may be a deceiving figure, however, since over 80 percent of the world  s freshwater is locked up as ice in glaciers, with the majority of it in Antarctica.
When snowfalls on high mountains or in polar regions, it may become part of the glacial system.
Unlike rain, which returns rapidly to the sea or atmosphere, the snow that becomes part of a glacier is involved in a much more slowly cycling system.
Here water may be stored in ice form for hundreds or even hundreds of thousands of years before being released again into the liquid water system as meltwater.
This has been so since ancient times, partly due to the geology of the area, which is mostly limestone and sandstone, with few deposits of metallic ore and other useful materials.
Records show merchant caravans and trading posts set up by the Sumerians in the surrounding mountains and deserts of Persia and Arabia, where they traded grain for raw materials, such as timber and stones, as well as for metals and gems.
In these shops differences of rank were blurred as artisans and masters labored side by side in the same modest establishment, were usually members of the same guild and religious sect, lived in the same neighborhoods, and often had assumed (or real) kinship relationships.
These were essentially professional associations that provided for the mutual aid and protection of their members, and allowed for the maintenance of professional standards.
As among tribespeople, personal relationships and a careful weighing of character have always been crucial in a mercantile economy with little regulation, where one's word is one's bond and where informal ties of trust cement together an international trade network.
The periodic table is a chart that reflects the periodic recurrence of chemical and physical properties of the elements when the elements are arranged in order of increasing atomic number (the number of protons in the nucleus).
It is a monumental scientific achievement, and its development illustrates the essential interplay between observation, prediction, and testing required for scientific progress.
By the late 1860's more than 60 chemical elements had been identified, and much was known about their descriptive chemistry.
The next step was to recognize a connection between group properties (physical or chemical similarities) and atomic mass (the measured mass of an individual atom of an element).
When the elements known at the time were ordered by increasing atomic mass, it was found that successive elements belonged to different chemical groups and that the order of the groups in this sequence was fixed and repeated itself at regular intervals.
Thus when the series of elements was written so as to begin a new horizontal row with each alkali metal, elements of the same groups were automatically assembled in vertical columns in a periodic table of the elements.
When the German chemist Lothar Meyer and (independently) the Russian Dmitry Mendeleyev first introduced the periodic table in 1869-70, one-third of the naturally occurring chemical elements had not yet been discovered.
Yet both chemists were sufficiently farsighted to leave gaps where their analyses of periodic physical and chemical properties indicated that new elements should be located.
Indium, for example, had previously been assigned an atomic mass between those of arsenic and selenium.
Because there is no space in the periodic table between these two elements, Mendeleyev suggested that the atomic mass of indium be changed to a completely different value, where it would fill an empty space between cadmium and tin.
In fact, subsequent work has shown that in a periodic table, elements should not be ordered strictly by atomic mass.
For example, tellurium comes before iodine in the periodic table, even though its atomic mass is slightly greater.
All the isotopes of a given element have the same number of protons, but differ in their number of neutrons, and hence in their atomic mass.
We now know that atomic number (the number of protons in the nucleus), not atomic mass number (the number of protons and neutrons), determines chemical behavior.
Mendeleyev went further than Meyer in another respect: he predicted the properties of six elements yet to be discovered.
For example, a gap just below aluminum suggested a new element would be found with properties analogous to those of aluminum.
The close correspondence between the observed properties of gallium and Mendeleyev  s predictions for eka-aluminum lent strong support to the periodic law.
Additional support came in 1885 when eka-silicon, which had also been described in advance by Mendeleyev, was discovered and named germanium.
The structure of the periodic table appeared to limit the number of possible elements.
A century earlier, Henry Cavendish had noted the existence of a residual gas when oxygen and nitrogen are removed from air, but its importance had not been realized.
Ramsay then studied a gas that was present in natural gas deposits and discovered that it was helium, an element whose presence in the Sun had been noted earlier in the spectrum of sunlight but that had not previously been known on Earth.
Rayleigh and Ramsay postulated the existence of a new group of elements, and in 1898 other members of the series (neon, krypton, and xenon) were isolated.
Pluto is not included in either category, because its great distance from Earth and its small size make this planet's true nature a mystery.
The most obvious difference between the terrestrial and the Jovian planets is their size.
Also, because of their relative locations, the four Jovian planets are known as the outer planets, while the terrestrial planets are known as the inner planets.
There appears to be a correlation between the positions of these planets and their sizes.
By comparison, the terrestrial planets have meager atmospheres at best.
Any material, including a rocket, must reach this speed before it can leave Earth and go into space.
The Jovian planets, because of their greater masses and thus higher surface gravities, have higher escape velocities (21-60 kilometers per second) than the terrestrial planets.
Also, because the molecular motion of a gas depends on temperature, at the low temperatures of the Jovian planets even the lightest gases are unlikely to acquire the speed needed to escape.
The explanation may be that the terrestrial planets were once much larger and richer in these materials but eventually lost them because of these bodies' relative closeness to the Sun, which meant that their temperatures were relatively high.
In the fourteenth century, a number of political developments cut Europe's overland trade routes to southern and eastern Asia, with which Europe had had important and highly profitable commercial ties since the twelfth century.
Widely reported, if somewhat distrusted, accounts by figures like the famous traveler from Venice, Marco Polo, of the willingness of people in China to trade with Europeans and of the immensity of the wealth to be gained by such contact made the idea irresistible.
Possibilities for trade seemed promising, but no hope existed for maintaining the traditional routes over land A new way had to be found.
Europe's maritime tradition had developed in the context of easily navigable seas  the Mediterranean, the Baltic, and, to a lesser extent, the North Sea between England and the Continent  not of vast oceans.
The sheer scale of the investment it took to begin commercial expansion at sea reflects the immensity of the profits that such East-West trade could create Spices were the most sought-after commodities.
But even high-priced commodities like spices had to be transported in large bulk in order to justify the expense and trouble of sailing around the African continent all the way to India and China.
Shortly after 1400, shipbuilders began developing a new type of vessel properly designed to operate in rough, open water: the caravel.
In the largest caravels, two main masts held large square sails that provided the bulk of the thrust driving the ship forward, while a smaller forward mast held a triangular-shaped sail, called a lateen sail, which could be moved into a variety of positions to maneuver the ship.
The astrolabe had long been the primary instrument for navigation, having been introduced in the eleventh century.
Also beginning in the thirteenth century, there were new maps refined by precise calculations and the reports of sailors that made it possible to trace one's path with reasonable accuracy.
Certain institutional and practical norms had become established as well.     
Thus by about 1400 the key elements were in place to enable Europe to begin its seaward adventure.
A color or pattern that is relatively indistinct in one kind of light may be quite conspicuous in another.
In the varied and constantly changing light environment of the forest, an animal must be able to send visual signals to members of its own species and at the same time avoid being detected by predators.
This may require moving to different parts of the forest at different times of the day or under different weather conditions, or it may be achieved by changing color according to the changing light conditions.
A male bird of paradise may put himself in the limelight by displaying his spectacular plumage in the best stage setting to attract a female.
Certain butterflies move into spots of sunlight that have penetrated to the forest floor and display by opening and closing their beautifully patterned wings in the bright spotlights.
They also compete with each other for the best spot of sunlight.
A signal might be most easily seen if it is maximally bright.
In the green-to-yellow lighting conditions of the lowest levels of the forest, yellow and green would be the brightest colors, but when an animal is signaling, these colors would not be very visible if the animal was sitting in an area with a yellowish or greenish background.
The best signal depends not only on its brightness but also on how well it contrasts with the background against which it must be seen.
In this part of the rain forest, therefore, red and orange are the best colors for signaling, and they are the colors used in signals by the ground-walking Australian brush turkey.
In densely wooded environments, sound is the best means of communication over distance because in comparison with light, it travels with little impediment from trees and other vegetation.
In forests, visual signals can be seen only at short distances, where they are not obstructed by trees.
A symbiotic relationship is an interaction between two or more species in which one species lives in or on another species.
The first and the third can be key factors in the structure of a biological community; that is, all the populations of organisms living together and potentially interacting in a particular area.
Natural selection favors the parasites that are best able to find and feed on hosts.
In 1950, myxoma virus, a parasite that affects rabbits, was deliberately introduced into Australia to control the rabbit population.
Apparently, genotypes (the genetic make-up of an organism) in the rabbit population were selected that were better able to resist the parasite.
In contrast to parasitism, in commensalism, one partner benefits without significantly affecting the other.
Few cases of absolute commensalism probably exist, because it is unlikely that one of the partners will be completely unaffected.
The third type of symbiosis, mutualism, benefits both partners in the relationship.
Legume plants and their nitrogen-fixing bacteria, and the interactions between flowering plants and their pollinators, are examples of mutualistic association.
In the second case, pollinators (insects, birds) obtain food from the flowering plant, and the plant has its pollen distributed and seeds dispersed much more efficiently than they would be if they were carried by the wind only.
Another example of mutualism would be the bull's horn acacia tree, which grows in Central and South America.
The ants benefit the host tree by attacking virtually anything that touches it.
When the ants are removed, the trees usually die, probably because herbivores damage them so much that they are unable to compete with surrounding vegetation for light and growing space.
While some European countries, such as England and Germany, began to industrialize in the eighteenth century, the Netherlands and the Scandinavian countries of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden developed later.
All four of these countries lagged considerably behind in the early nineteenth century.
At the beginning of the nineteenth century, Denmark and Norway had fewer than 1 million people, while Sweden and the Netherlands had fewer than 2.5 million inhabitants.
Denmark was in between but closer to the Netherlands.
As small countries dependent on foreign markets, they followed a liberal trade policy in the main, though a protectionist movement developed in Sweden.
This meant a great dependence on international commerce, which had notorious fluctuations; but it also meant high returns to those factors of production that were fortunate enough to be well placed in times of prosperity.
Unfortunately, the few scientific investigations of yawning have failed to find any connection between how often someone yawns and how much sleep they have had or how tired they are.
When researchers measured the heart rate, muscle tension and skin conductance of people before, during and after yawning, they did detect some changes in skin conductance following yawning, indicating a slight increase in physiological activity.
Experiments have also cast serious doubt on the belief that yawning is triggered by a drop in blood oxygen or a rise in blood carbon dioxide.
It has been suggested that yawning and hiccupping might serve to clear out the fetuses airways.
It might be that yawning helps to clear out the lungs by periodically lowering the pressure in them.
But, while accepting that not everything in life can be explained by Darwinian evolution, there are sound reasons for being skeptical of theories like this one, which avoid the issue of what yawning does for adults.
What could it be?
Support for this theory came from a study of yawning behavior in everyday life.
The data showed that yawning tended to occur about 15 minutes before a period of increased behavioral activity.
Such yawning is often referred to as "incongruous" because it seems out of place, at least on the tiredness view: soldiers yawning before combat, musicians yawning before performing, and athletes yawning before competing.
The electrical discharge takes place when the attractive tension between a region of negatively charged particles and a region of positively charged particles becomes so great that the charged particles suddenly rush together.
Concentrations of positively charged particles develop at the top and bottom of the cloud, but the middle region becomes negatively charged.
At such temperatures, the collision between the ice pellets and the ice crystals causes electrical charges to shift so that the ice pellets acquire a negative charge and the ice crystals become positively charged.
This process explains why the top of the cloud becomes positively charged, while the center becomes negatively charged.
Below this large, cold, negatively charged region, the cloud is warmer than -15  , and at these temperatures, collisions between ice crystals and falling ice pellets produce positively charged ice pellets that then populate a small region at the base of the cloud. 
However, as the storm cloud develops, the ground beneath the cloud becomes positively charged and lightning can take place in the form of an electrical discharge between the negative charge of the cloud and the positively charged ground.
Lightning that strikes the ground is the most likely to be destructive, so even though it represents only 20 percent of all lightning, it has received a lot of scientific attention.
Once a channel has been formed, it is usually used by several lightning discharges, each of them consisting of a stream of electrons from the cloud meeting a stream of positive particles along the established path.
In the wake of the Roman Empire's conquest of Britain in the first century A.D., a large number of troops stayed in the new province, and these troops had a considerable impact on Britain with their camps, fortifications, and participation in the local economy.
The imposition of military rule also robbed local leaders of opportunities to participate in local government, so social development was stunted and the seeds of disaffection sown.
This then meant that the military had to remain to suppress rebellion and organize government.
Although goods could be requisitioned, they were usually paid for, and this probably stimulated changes in the local economy.
When not campaigning, soldiers needed to be occupied; otherwise they represented a potentially dangerous source of friction and disloyalty.
Each soldier received his pay, but in regions without a developed economy there was initially little on which it could be spent.
Some of the demand for the services and goods was no doubt fulfilled by people drawn from far afield, but some local people certainly became entwined in this new economy.
These settlements acted like small towns, becoming centers for the artisan and trading populations.
The total numbers were at least 12,500 men up to the reign of the emperor Hadrian (A.D. 117-138), with a peak around A.D. 80.
By the later Roman period, frontier garrisons (groups of soldiers) were only rarely transferred, service in units became effectively hereditary, and forts were no longer populated or maintained at full strength.
It also explains why some of the forts continued in occupation long after Rome ceased to have any formal authority in Britain, at the beginning of the fifth century A.D.
The circumstances that had allowed natives to become Romanized also led the self-sustaining military community of the frontier area to become effectively British.
In the late nineteenth century, ecology began to grow into an independent science from its roots in natural history and plant geography.
An abandoned field, for instance, will be invaded successively by herbaceous plants (plants with little or no woody tissue), shrubs, and trees, eventually becoming a forest.
Clements and other early ecologists saw almost lawlike regularity in the order of succession, but that has not been substantiated.
A general trend can be recognized, but the details are usually unpredictable.
An ant colony may be legitimately called a superorganism because its communication system is so highly organized that the colony always works as a whole and appropriately according to the circumstances.
Though it is true that many animals are strictly associated with certain plants, it is misleading to speak of a "spruce-moose biome," for example, because there is no internal cohesion to their association as in an organism.
The opposition to the Clementsian concept of plant ecology was initiated by Herbert Gleason, soon joined by various other ecologists.
With "climax," "biome," "superorganism," and various other technical terms for the association of animals and plants at a given locality being criticized, the term "ecosystem" was more and more widely adopted for the whole system of associated organisms together with the physical factors of their environment.
Furthermore, the number of interactions is so great that they are difficult to analyze, even with the help of large computers.
Finally, younger ecologists have found ecological problems involving behavior and life-history adaptations more attractive than measuring physical constants.
In the middle of the nineteenth century, Louis Agassiz, one of the first scientists to study glaciers, immigrated to the United States from Switzerland and became a professor at Harvard University, where he continued his studies in geology and other sciences.
The areas covered by this material were so vast that the ice that deposited it must have been a continental glacier larger than Greenland or Antarctica.
For the first time, people began to talk about ice ages.
It was also apparent that the glaciation occurred in the relatively recent past because the drift was soft, like freshly deposited sediment.
It soon became clear that there were multiple glacial ages during the Pleistocene, with warmer interglacial intervals between them.
As geologists mapped glacial deposits in the late nineteenth century, they became aware that there were several layers of drift, the lower ones corresponding to earlier ice ages.
By the early part of the twentieth century, scientists believed that four distinct glaciations had affected North America and Europe during the Pleistocene epoch. 
They could trace the growth and shrinkage of continental glaciers, even in parts of the ocean where there may have been no great change in temperature  around the equator, for example.
Thus, more of the heavy isotope is left behind in the ocean and absorbed by marine organisms.
"Old America seemed to be breaking up and moving westward," observed an English visitor in 1817, during the first great wave of migration.
In American society, however, the class structure was less rigid; some people changed occupations easily and believed it was their duty to improve their social and economic position.
Therefore, these social traits helped to produce the nomadic and daring settlers who kept pushing westward beyond the fringes of settlement.
In addition, there were other immigrants who migrated west in search of new homes, material success, and better lives.
In 1820 under a new land law, a farm could be bought for $100.
Transportation was becoming less of a problem for those who wished to move west and for those who hand farm surpluses to send to market.
Livestock could be driven across the mountains, but the cost of transporting bulky grains in this fashion was several times greater than their value in eastern markets.
First came the steamboat; although flatboats and keelboats continued to be important until the 1850  s steamboats eventually superseded all other craft in the carrying of passengers and freight.
Within 2,000 years, the human population of the region numbered in the tens of thousands, all as a result of village life and farming.
However, the chances of escaping complete destruction are vastly improved if the organism happens to have a mineralized skeleton and dies in a place where it can be quickly buried by sediment.
On occasion, animals and plants have been preserved after becoming immersed in tar or quicksand, trapped in ice or lava flows, or engulfed by rapid falls of volcanic ash.
The empty shell of a snail or clam may be left behind, and if it is sufficiently durable and resistant to dissolution, it may remain basically unchanged for a long period of time.
Water containing dissolved silica, calcium carbonate, or iron may circulate through the enclosing sediment and be deposited in cavities such as marrow cavities and canals in bone once occupied by blood vessels and nerves.
This process is termed "replacement" because solutions have dissolved the original material and replaced it with an equal volume of the new substance.
Replacement can be a marvelously precise process, so that details of shell ornamentation, tree rings in wood, and delicate structures in bone are accurately preserved.
Leaves and tissue of soft-bodied organisms such as jellyfish or worms may accumulate, become buried and compressed, and lose their volatile constituents.
The carbon often remains behind as a blackened silhouette.
Insects and even small invertebrates have been found preserved in the hardened resins of conifers and certain other trees.
Soft parts, including skin, hair, and viscera of ice age mammoths, have been preserved in frozen soil or in the oozing tar of oil seeps.
The probability that actual remains of soft tissue will be preserved is improved if the organism dies in an environment of rapid deposition and oxygen deprivation.
It can also be harnessed to drive electric generators and heat homes.
Geothermal energy becomes available in a practical form when underground heat is transferred by water that is heated as it passes through a subsurface region of hot rocks (a heat reservoir) that may be hundreds or thousands of feet deep.
The water is usually naturally occurring groundwater that seeps down along fractures in the rock; less typically, the water is artificially introduced by being pumped down from the surface.
In the 1990s enough electricity to meet about half the needs of San Francisco was being generated there.
This facility was then in its third decade of production and was beginning to show signs of decline, perhaps because of over development.
Extracting heat from very hot, dry rocks presents a more difficult problem: the rocks must be fractured to permit the circulation of water, and the water must be provided artificially.
The surface of the ground can sink if hot groundwater is withdrawn without being replaced.
Geothermal energy is in a sense not renewable, because in most cases the heat would be drawn out of a reservoir much more rapidly than it would be replaced by the very slow geological processes by which heat flows through solid rock into a heat reservoir.
How did it come about that farming developed independently in a number of world centers (the Southeast Asian mainland, Southwest Asia, Central America, lowland and highland South America, and equatorial Africa) at more or less the same time?
To start with, it forced the population to abandon the nomad's life and become sedentary, to develop methods of storage and, often, systems of irrigation.
While hunter-gatherers always had the option of moving elsewhere when the resources were exhausted, this became more difficult with farming.
Traditionally, it was believed that the transition to agriculture was the result of a worldwide population crisis.
It was argued that once hunter-gatherers had occupied the whole world, the population started to grow everywhere and food became scarce; agriculture would have been a solution to this problem.
Climatic changes at the end of the glacial period 13,000 years ago have been proposed to account for the emergence of farming.
It would appear that the instability of the climatic conditions led populations that had originally been nomadic to settle down and develop a sedentary style of life, which led in turn to population growth and to the need to increase the amount of food available.
Later on, it became very difficult to change because of the significant expansion of these populations.
It could be argued, however, that these conditions are not sufficient to explain the origins of agriculture.
Earth had experienced previous periods of climatic change, and yet agriculture had not been developed.
It is archaeologist Steven Mithen's thesis, brilliantly developed in his book The Prehistory of the Mind (1996), that approximately 40,000 years ago the human mind developed cognitive fluidity, that is, the integration of the specializations of the mind: technical, natural history (geared to understanding the behavior and distribution of natural resources), social intelligence, and the linguistic capacity.
Once humans possessed such a mind, they were able to find an imaginative solution to a situation of severe economic crisis such as the farming dilemma described earlier.
Mithen proposes the existence of four mental elements to account for the emergence of farming: (1) the ability to develop tools that could be used intensively to harvest and process plant resources; (2) the tendency to use plants and animals as the medium to acquire social prestige and power; (3) the tendency to develop "social relationships" with animals structurally similar to those developed with people  specifically, the ability to think of animals as people (anthropomorphism) and of people as animals (totemism); and (4) the tendency to manipulate plants and animals.
The fact that some societies domesticated animals and plants, discovered the use of metal tools, became literate, and developed a state should not make us forget that others developed pastoralism or horticulture (vegetable gardening) but remained illiterate and at low levels of productivity; a few entered the modern period as hunting and gathering societies.
However, it should be kept in mind that many societies that knew of agriculture more or less consciously avoided it.
Between ages three and four, children begin to give fairly lengthy and cohesive descriptions of events in their past.
According to this line of thought, the verbal abilities that blossom in the two year old allow events to be coded in a form radically different from the action-based codes of the infant.
When researchers had one year olds imitate an action sequence one year after they first saw it, there was correlation between the children's verbal skills at the time they first saw the event and their success on the later memory task.
However, even children with low verbal skills showed evidence of remembering the event; thus, memories may be facilitated by but are not dependent on those verbal skills.
Another suggestion is that before children can talk about past events in their lives, they need to have a reasonable understanding of the self as a psychological entity.
The development of an understanding of the self becomes evident between the first and second years of life and shows rapid elaboration in subsequent years.
A third possibility is that children will not be able to tell their own "life story" until they understand something about the general form stories take, that is, the structure of narratives.
A final suggestion is that children must begin to develop a "theory of mind"  an awareness of the concept of mental states (feelings, desires, beliefs, and thoughts), their own and those of others  before they can talk about their own past memories.
Once children become capable of answering such questions as "What does it mean to remember?"
It may be that the developments just described are intertwined with and influence one another.
Talking with parents about the past may enhance the development of the self-concept, for example, as well as help the child understand what it means to "remember."
Each tidal cycle carries plant material into the offshore water to be used by the subtidal organisms.
Once established, a stand of Spartina begins to trap sediment, changing the substrate elevation, and eventually the stand evolves into a high marsh system where Spartina is gradually displaced by higher-elevation, brackish-water species.
Leaving its insect predators behind, the cordgrass has been spreading slowly and steadily along Washington  s tidal estuaries on the west coast, crowding out the native plants and drastically altering the landscape by trapping sediment.
It is already hampering the oyster harvest and the Dungeness crab fishery, and it interferes with the recreational use of beaches and waterfronts.
Spartina has been transplanted to England and to New Zealand for land reclamation and shoreline stabilization.
In New Zealand the plant has spread rapidly, changing mudflats with marshy fringes to extensive salt meadows and reducing the number and kinds of birds and animals that use the marsh.
Little success has been reported in New Zealand and England; Washington State  s management program has tried many of these methods and is presently using the herbicide glyphosphate to control its spread.
Work has begun to determine the feasibility of using insects as biological controls, but effective biological controls are considered years away.
Even with a massive effort, it is doubtful that complete eradication of Spartina from nonnative habitats is possible, for it has become an integral part of these shorelines and estuaries during the last 100 to 200 years.
Unlike most major inventions, photography had been long and impatiently awaited.
The images produced by the camera obscura, a boxlike device that used a pinhole or lens to throw an image onto a ground-glass screen or a piece of white paper, were already familiar  the device had been much employed by topographical artists like the Italian painter Canaletto in his detailed views of the city of Venice.
The calotype was revolutionary in its use of chemically treated paper in which areas hit by light became dark in tone, producing a negative image.
This "negative," as Talbot called it, could then be used to print multiple positive images on another piece of treated paper.
The daguerreotype was a unique image that reproduced what was in front of the camera lens in minute, unselective detail and could not be duplicated.
The calotype could be made in series, and was thus the equivalent of an etching or an engraving.
Artists were fascinated by photography because it offered a way of examining the world in much greater detail.
They were also afraid of it, because it seemed likely to make their own efforts unnecessary.
Even those artists who were most dependent on photography became reluctant to admit that they made use of it, in case this compromised their professional standing.
The rapid technical development of photography  the introduction of lighter and simpler equipment, and of new emulsions that coated photographic plates, film, and paper and enabled images to be made at much faster speeds  had some unanticipated consequences.
Scientific experiments made by photographers such as Eadweard Muybridge (1830-1904) and Etienne-Jules Marey (1830-1904) demonstrated that the movements of both humans and animals differed widely from the way they had been traditionally represented in art.
The new candid photography  unposed pictures that were made when the subjects were unaware that their pictures were being taken  confirmed these scientific results, and at the same time, thanks to the radical cropping (trimming) of images that the camera often imposed, suggested new compositional formats.
The accidental effects obtained by candid photographers were soon being copied by artists such as the French painter Degas.
Altogether, roughly two tons of meteorite fragments were recovered, all of which bear the name Allende for the location of the first discovery.
When broken open, Allende stones are revealed to contain an assortment of small, distinctive objects, spherical or irregular in shape and embedded in a dark gray matrix (binding material), which were once constituents of the solar nebula  the interstellar cloud of gas and dust out of which our solar system was formed.
A few chondrules contain grains that survived the melting event, so these enigmatic chondrules must have formed when compact masses of nebular dust were fused at high temperatures and then cooled before these surviving grains could melt.
Study of the textures of chondrules confirms that they cooled rather quickly, in times measured in minutes or hours, so the heating events that formed them must have been localized.
Chondrules must have been melted in small pockets of the nebula that were able to lose heat rapidly.
Equally perplexing constituents of Allende are the refractory inclusions: irregular white masses that tend to be larger than chondrules.
The same minerals that occur in refractory inclusions are believed to be the earliest-formed substances to have condensed out of the solar nebula.
At one time it was thought that these matrix grains might be pristine nebular dust, the sort of stuff from which chondrules and inclusions were made.
However, detailed studies of the chondrite matrix suggest that much of it, too, has been formed by condensation or melting in the nebula, although minute amounts of surviving interstellar dust are mixed with the processed materials.
After all, the Sun has many more atoms of any element, say iron, than does a meteorite specimen, but the ratios of iron to silicon in the two kinds of matter might be comparable.
We might think of chondrites as samples of distilled Sun, a sort of solar sludge from which only gases have been removed.
A daily input of water, food, and energy of various kinds is matched by an output of sewage, solid waste, air pollutants, energy, and materials that have been transformed in some way.
Therefore, even without any industrial production of heat, an urban area tends to be warmer than the countryside that surrounds it.
During the day, heat from the Sun can be conducted into these materials and stored  to be released at night.
But in the countryside materials have a significantly lower heat capacity because a vegetative blanket prevents heat from easily flowing into and out of the ground.
Shortwave radiation from the Sun passes through the pollution dome more easily than outgoing longwave radiation does; the latter is absorbed by the gaseous pollutants of the dome and reradiated back to the urban surface. 
Heat islands develop best under particular conditions associated with light winds, but they can form almost any time.
When a heat island is well developed, variations can be extreme; in winter, busy streets in cities can be 1.7   warmer than the side streets.
Areas near traffic lights can be similarly warmer than the areas between them because of the effect of cars standing in traffic instead of moving.
The maximum differences in temperature between neighboring urban and rural environments is called the heat-island intensity for that region.
The surface-atmosphere relationships inside metropolitan areas produce a number of climatic peculiarities.
Thus, city surfaces, as well as the air above them, tend to be drier between episodes of rain; with little water available for the cooling process of evaporation, relative humidities are usually lower.
Wind movements are also modified in cities because buildings increase the friction on air flowing around them.
On the other hand, air turbulence increases because of the effect of skyscrapers on airflow.
The cause appears to be in part greater turbulence in the urban atmosphere as hot air rises from the built-up surface.
Importing the grain, which would have been expensive and time consuming for the Dutch to have produced themselves, kept the price of grain low and thus stimulated individual demand for other foodstuffs and consumer goods.
Apart from this, being able to give up labor-intensive grain production freed both the land and the workforce for more productive agricultural divisions.
There was also a demand among urban consumers for dairy products such as butter and cheese, which, in the sixteenth century, had become more expensive than grain.
The high prices encouraged the peasants to improve their animal husbandry techniques; for example, they began feeding their animals indoors in order to raise the milk yield of their cows.
In addition to dairy farming and cultivating industrial crops, a third sector of the Dutch economy reflected the way in which agriculture was being modernized-horticulture.
In the sixteenth century, fruit and vegetables were to be found only in gardens belonging to wealthy people.
This changed in the early part of the seventeenth century when horticulture became accepted as an agricultural sector.
Whole villages began to cultivate fruit and vegetables.
As the demand for agricultural produce from both consumers and industry increased, agricultural land became more valuable and people tried to work the available land more intensively and to reclaim more land from wetlands and lakes.
In order to increase production on existing land, the peasants made more use of crop rotation and, in particular, began to apply animal waste to the soil regularly, rather than leaving the fertilization process up to the grazing livestock.
Noorderkwartier in Holland, with its numerous lakes and stretches of water, was particularly suitable for land reclamation and one of the biggest projects undertaken there was the draining of the Beemster lake which began in 1608.
Land reclamation continued, and between 1590 and 1665, almost 100,000 hectares were reclaimed from the wetland areas of Holland, Zeeland, and Friesland.
However, land reclamation decreased significantly after the middle of the seventeenth century because the price of agricultural products began to fall, making land reclamation far less profitable in the second part of the century. 
In Europe as a whole, the exceptional reduction in the population and the related fall in demand for grain since the beginning of the seventeenth century had caused the price of agricultural products to fall.
Dutch peasants were able to remain unaffected by this crisis for a long time because they had specialized in dairy farming industrial crops, and horticulture.
Ever since European first explored Australia, people have been trying to understand the ancient rock drawings and cavings created by the Aborigines, the original inhabitants of the continent.
Early in the nineteenth century, encounters with Aboriginal rock art tended to be infrequent and open to speculative interpretation, but since the late nineteenth century, awareness of the extent and variety of Australian rock art has been growing.
Second, what is its stylistic organization and is it possible to discern a sequence or a pattern of development between styles?
Third, is it possible to interpret accurately the subject matter of ancient rock art, bring to bear all available archaeological techniques and the knowledge of present-day Aboriginal informants?
The age of Australia  s rock art is constantly being revised, and earlier datings have been proposed as the result of new discoveries.
Currently, reliable scientific evidence dates the earliest creation of art on rock surfaces in Australia to somewhere between 30,000 and 50,000 years ago.
Although the remarkable antiquity of Australia  s rock art is now established, the sequences and meanings of its images have been widely debated.
In order to create a sense of structure to this picture, researchers have relied on a distinction that still underlies the forms of much indigenous visual culture  a distinction between geometric and figurative elements.
The frequency with which certain simple motifs appear in these oldest sites has led rock-art researchers to adopt a descriptive term  the Panaramitee style  a label which takes its name from the extensive rock pavements at Panaramitee North in desert South Australia, which are covered with motifs pecked into the surface.
Certain features of these engravings lead to the conclusion that they are of great age  geological changes had clearly happened after the designs had been made and local Aboriginal informants, when first questioned about them, seemed to know nothing of their origins.
Indeed, sites with engravings of geometric shapes are also to be found on the island of Tasmania, which was separated from the mainland of the continent some 10,000 years ago.
In the 1970s when the study of Australian archaeology was in an exciting phase of development, with the great antiquity of rock art becoming clear, Lesley Maynard, the archaeologist who coined the phrase   Panaramitee style,   suggested that a sequence could be determined for Australian rock art, in which a geometric style gave way to a simple figurative style (outlines of figures and animals), followed by a range of complex figurative styles that, unlike the pan-Australian geometric tradition tended to much greater regional diversity.
While accepting that this sequence fits the archaeological profile of those sites, which were occupied continuously over many thousands of years a number of writers have warned that the underlying assumption of such a sequence  a development from the simple and the geometric to the complex and naturalistic  obscures the cultural continuities in Aboriginal Australia, in which geometric symbolism remains fundamentally important.
In this context the simplicity of a geometric motif may be more apparent than real.
Water leaves a lake via outflowing rivers, by soaking into the bed of the lake, and by evaporation.
The questions become more complicated when actual volumes of water are considered: how much water enters and leaves by each route?
Then exchanges with the atmosphere are calculated by finding the difference between the gains from rain, as measured (rather roughly) by rain gauges, and the losses by evaporation, measured with models that correct for the other sources of water loss.
Changes in lake level not explained by river flows plus exchanges with the atmosphere must be due to the net difference between what seeps into the lake from the groundwater and what leaks into the groundwater.
Once all this information has been gathered, it becomes possible to judge whether a lake  s flow is mainly due to its surface inputs and outputs or to its underground inputs and outputs.
For example, a pond in hilly country that maintains a steady water level all through a dry summer in spite of having no streams flowing into it must obviously be seepage dominated.
Lake Erie  s is the lowest: although its area is larger than Lake Ontario   s, its volume is less than one-third as great because it is so   shallow-less than 20 meters on average.
The result has been that the residence time of one of the lakes increased from 5 to 18 years during the study period.
The slowing down of water renewal leads to a chain of further consequences; it causes dissolved chemicals to become increasingly concentrated, and this, in turn, has a marked effect on all living things in the lake.
Of all the physiological differences in human sleep compared with wakefulness that have been discovered in the last decade, changes in respiratory control are most dramatic.
Yet because of the physics of lying down, the stomach applies weight against the diaphragm and makes it more difficult for the diaphragm to do its job.
The second system is the voluntary, behavioral system.
During NREM (the phase of sleep in which there is no rapid eye movement) breathing becomes deeper and more regular, but there is also a decrease in the breathing rate, resulting in less air being exchanged overall.
This occurs because during NREM sleep the automatic, metabolic system has exclusive control over breathing and the body uses less oxygen and produces less carbon dioxide.
First, there may be a brief cessation or reduction of breathing when falling asleep as the sleeper waxes and wanes between sleep and wakefulness and their differing control mechanisms.
During all phases of sleep, several changes in the air passages have been observed.
It takes twice as much effort to breathe during sleep because of greater resistance to airflow in the airways and changes in the efficiency of the muscles used for breathing.
Some of the muscles that help keep the upper airway open when breathing tend to become more relaxed during sleep, especially during REM (the phase of sleep in which there is rapid eye movement).
Also there is a regular cycle of change in resistance between the two sides of the nose.
The amount of air exchanged is even lower in REM than NREM because, although breathing is more rapid in REM, it is also more irregular, with brief episodes of shallow breathing or absence of breathing.
In the Mesa Verde area of the ancient North American Southwest, living patterns changed in the thirteenth century, with large numbers of people moving into large communal dwellings called pueblos, often constructed at the edges of canyons, especially on the sides of cliffs.
And besides the awkwardness of having to share walls with neighbors, living in aggregated pueblos introduced other problems.
For transitions of such suddenness, archaeologists consider either pull factors (benefits that drew families together) or push factors (some external threat or crisis that forced people to aggregate).
After several generations of population growth, people packed the landscape in densities so high that communal pueblos may have been a necessary outcome.
As densities increased, domestic architecture became larger, culminating in crowded pueblos.
Some scholars expand on this idea by emphasizing a corresponding need for arable land to feed growing numbers of people: construction of small dams, reservoirs, terraces, and field houses indicates  that  farmers  were  intensifying  their  efforts  during  the  1200s. 
Competition for good farmland may also have prompted people to bond together to assert rights over the best fields.Another important push was the onset of the Little Ice Age, a climatic phenomenon that led to cooler temperatures in the Northern Hemisphere.
Growing food at these elevations is always difficult because of the short growing season.
Scholars believe that this cooperation allowed people to contend with a patchy environment in which precipitation and other resources varied across the landscape: if you produce a lot of food one year, you might trade it for pottery made by a distant ally who is having difficulty with crops  and the next year, the flow of goods might go in the opposite direction.
Although the climate remained as unpredictable as ever between one year and   the next, it became much less locally diverse.
Instead, the most sensible thing would be for neighbors to combine efforts to produce as much food as possible, and thus aggregated towns were a sensible arrangement.
None of these volcanoes was formed as a result of collisions between plates of the Martian crust-there is no plate motion on Mars.
Scientists have no direct evidence for recent or ongoing eruptions, but if these volcanoes were active as recently as 100 million, years ago (an estimate of the time of last "eruption based on the extent of impact cratering on their slopes), some of them may still be at least intermittently active.
Millions of years, though, may pass between eruptions.
On the Moon, ancient craters less than 100 meters across (corresponding to depths of about 20 meters) have been obliterated, primarily by meteoritic erosion.
craters too big to have been filled in by erosion since they were formed) serves as an age indicator for the Martian surface.
The detailed appearance of Martian impact craters provides an important piece of information about conditions just below the planet's surface.
In the late thirteenth century, northern Italian cities such as Genoa, Florence, and Venice began an economic resurgence that made them into the most important economic centers of Europe.
This decline can be seen clearly in the changes that affected Venetian shipping and trade.
In the early sixteenth century the shortage of rowers was not serious because the demand for galleys was limited by a move to round ships (round-hulled ships with more cargo space), with required fewer rowers.
But the shortage of crews proved to be a greater and greater problem, despite continuous appeal to Venic's tradition of maritime greatness.
Timber ran short, and it was necessary to procure it from father and father away.
Arsenale officers first brought timber from the foothills of the Alps, then from north toward Trieste, and finally from across the Adriatic.
The step from buying foreign timber to buying foreign ships was regarded as a short one, especially when complaints were heard in the latter sixteenth century that the standards and traditions of the Arsenale were running down.
Older workers had been allowed to stop work a half hour before the regular time, and in 1601 younger works left with them.
The Portuguese Vasco de Gama  s Voyaga around southern Afica to India  took place at the end of the fifteenth century, and by 1502 the trans- Abrabian caravan route had been cut off by political unrest.
Venetian shipping had started to decline from about 1530-before the entry into the Mediterranean of large volumes of Dutch and British shipping-and was clearly outclassed by the end of the century.
A contemporary of Shakespeare (1564-1616) observed that the productivity of Italian shipping had declined, compared with that of the British, because of conservatism and loss of expertise.
The evolutionary history of plants has been marked by a series of adaptations.
This supposition stems from the close phylogenetic (natural evolutionary) relationship between the two groups.
This would not be true of red and brown algae.
If so, the green algae would have been subjected to environmental pressures that resulted in adaptations that enhanced their potential to give rise to land-dwelling or organisms.
In the late 1700s James Watt designed an efficient and commercially viable steam engine that was soon applied to a variety of industrial uses as it became cheaper to use.
A rotary engine attached to the steam engine enabled shafts to be turned and machines to be driven, resulting in mills using steam power to spin and weave cotton.
Since the steam engine was fired by coal, the large mills did not need to be located by rivers, as had mills that used water- driven machines.
Production of British cotton goods increased sixtyfold, and cotton cloth became Great Britain  s most important product, accounting for one-half of all exports.
The success of the steam engine resulted in increased demands for coal, and the consequent increase in coal production was made possible as the steam-powered pumps drained water from the ever-deeper coal seams found below the water table.
Charcoal, made from wood and thus in limited supply, was replaced with coal-derived coke (substance left after coal is heated) as steam-driven bellows came into use for producing of raw iron.
The resulting boom in the iron industry expanded the annual iron output by more than 170 times between 1740 and 1840, and by the 1850s Great Britain was producing more tons of iron than the rest of the world combined.
Parallel rails had long been used in mining operations to move bigger loads, but horses were still the primary source of power.
As transportation improved, distant and larger markets within the nation could be reached, thereby encouraging the development of larger factories to keep pace with increasing sales.
Greater productivity and rising demands provided entrepreneurs with profits that could be reinvested to take advantage of new technologies to further expand capacity, or to seek alternative investment opportunities.
When the work was completed, many moved to other construction jobs or to factory work in cities and towns, where they became part of an expanding working class.
Despite these conditions, however, many varieties of plants and animals have adapted to deserts in a number of ways.
Most plant tissues die if their water content falls too low: the nutrients that feed plants are transmitted by water; water is a raw material in the vital process of photosynthesis; and water regulates the temperature of a plant by its ability to absorb heat and because water vapor lost to the atmosphere through the leaves helps to lower plant temperatures.
Some areas, because of their soil texture, topographical position, or distance from rivers or groundwater, have virtually no water available to plants, whereas others do.
There are two general classes of vegetation: long-lived perennials, which may be succulent (water-storing) and are often dwarfed and woody, and annuals or ephemerals, which have a short life cycle and may form a fairly dense stand immediately after rain.
Given a year of favorable precipitation, such plants will develop vigorously and produce large numbers of flowers and fruit.
Most desert plants are probably best classified as xerophytes.
They possess drought-resisting adaptations: loss of water through the leaves is reduced by means of dense hairs covering waxy leaf surfaces, by the closure of pores during the hottest times to reduce water loss, and by the rolling up or shedding of leaves at the beginning of the dry season.
Another way of countering drought is to have a limited amount of mass above ground and to have extensive root networks below ground.
Animals also have to adapt to desert conditions, and they may do it through two forms of behavioral adaptation: they either escape or retreat.
The term retreat is applied to the short-term escape behavior of desert animals, and it usually assumes the pattern of a daily rhythm.
Some animals have behavioral, physiological, and morphological (structural) adaptations that enable them to withstand extreme conditions.
When conditions are hot, the ostrich erects them on its back, thus increasing the thickness of the barrier between solar radiation and the skin.
The earliest of the city states of the ancient Near East appeared at the southern end of the Mesopotamian plain, the area between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers in what is now Iraq.
At first sight, the plain did not appear to be a likely home for a civilization.
There were few natural resources, no timber, stone, or metals.
As the plain fell only 20 meters in 500 kilometers, the beds of the rivers shifted constantly.
Human beings were at their mercy.
In the earliest version, the gods destroy the human race because its clamor had been so disturbing to them.
It used to be believed that before 3000 B.C.E.
(Trading was important, as so many raw materials, the semiprecious stones for the decoration of the temples, timbers for roofs, and all metals, had to be imported.)
The earliest script was based on logograms, with a symbol being used to express a whole word.
Two thousand logograms have been recorded from these early centuries of writing.
Whenever a word including a syllable in which the sound   sag   was to be written, the sign for   sag" could be used to express that syllable with the remaining syllables of the word expressed by other signs.)
the number of signs required had been reduced to 600, and the range of words that could be expressed had widened.
A major development was the discovery, again about 3000 B.C.E., that if copper, which had been known in Mesopotamia since about 3500 B.C.E., was mixed with tin, a much harder metal, bronze, would result.
Although copper and stone tools continued to be used, bronze was far more successful in creating sharp edges that could be used as anything from saws and scythes to weapons.
The period from 3000 to 1000 B.C.E., when the use of bronze became widespread, is normally referred to as the Bronze Age.
A large part of that increase took place in Uruk itself, which became a real urban center surrounded by a set of secondary settlements.
While population estimates are notoriously unreliable, scholars assume that Uruk inhabitants were able to support themselves from the agricultural production of the field surrounding the city, which could be reached with a daily commute.
In an early fourth-millennium level of the Eanna archaeological site at Uruk, a pottery style appears that is most characteristic of this process, the so-called beveled-rim bowl.
It is a rather shallow bowl that was crudely made in a mold; hence, in only a limited number of standard sizes.
For some unknown reason, many were discarded, often still intact, and thousands have been found all over the Near East.
The beveled-rim bowl is one of the most telling diagnostic finds for indentifying an Uruk-period site.
A variety of documentation indicates that certain goods, once made by a family member as one of many duties, were later made by skilled artisans.
Certain images depict groups of people, most likely women, involved in weaving textiles, an activity we know from later third-millennium texts to have been vital in the economy and to have been centrally administered.
Also, a specialized metal-producing workshop may have been excavated in a small area at Uruk.
It contained a number of channels lined by a sequence of holes, about 50 centimeters deep, all showing burn marks and filled with ashes.
This has been interpreted as the remains of a workshop where molten metal was scooped up from the channel and poured into molds in the holes.
From the first appearance of cylinder seals, the carved scenes could be highly elaborate and refined, indicating the work of specialist stone-cutters.
Earth  s surface is not made up of a single sheet of rock that forms a crust but rather a number of   tectonic plates   that fit closely, like the pieces of a giant jigsaw puzzle.
All are slowly moving because the plates float on a denser semiliquid mantle, the layer between the crust and Earth  s core.
The plates have edges that are spreading ridges (where two plates are moving apart and new seafloor is being created), subduction zones (where two plates collide and one plunges beneath the other),or transform faults(where two plates neither converge nor diverge but merely move past one another).It is at the boundaries between plates that most of Earth  s volcanism and earthquake activity occur.
Wilson suggested that the long chain of volcanoes stretching northwest from Hawaii is simply the surface expression of a long-lived volcanic source located beneath the tectonic plate in the mantle.
Today  s most northwest island would have been the first to form.
The most recent island, Hawaii, would be at the end of the chain and is now over the volcanic source.
Most volcanoes that occur in the interiors of plates are believed to be produced by mantle plumes, columns of molten rock that rise from deep within the mantle.
The plumes apparently originate at great depths, perhaps as deep as the boundary between the core and the mantle, and many have been active for a very long time.
The oceanic volcanic islands and their hot-spot trails are thus especially useful for geologists because they record the past locations of the plate over a fixed source.
So the position of the Pacific Plate 50 million years ago can be determined by moving it such that a 50-million-year-old volcano in the hot-spot trail sits at the location of Hawaii today.
However, because the ocean basins really are short-lived features on geologic times scales, reconstructing the world  s geography by backtracking along the hot-spot trail works only for the last 5 percent or so of geologic time.
The answer is not as simple as might be thought.
When experimental populations are set up under simple laboratory conditions, the predator often exterminates its prey and then becomes extinct itself, having nothing left to eat.
Population cycles are characteristic of small mammals, and they sometimes appear to be brought about by predators.
Its numbers fall tenfold to thirty in a typical cycle, and a hundredfold change can occur.
Two factors appear to be generating the cycle: food plants and predators.
As hare density increases, the quantity of these twigs decreases, forcing the hares to feed on low-quality, high-fiber food.
As hare numbers fall, so do lynx numbers, as their food supply depleted.
Do increasing numbers of hares lead to overhavesting of plants, which in turn results in reduced hare populations, or do increasing numbers of lynx lead to overhavesting of hares?
When food was added to these plots (no food effect) and predators were excluded (no predator effect) from an experimental area, hare numbers increased tenfold and stayed there  the cycle was lost.
Thus, both factors can affect the cycle, which, in practice, seems to be generated by the conjunction of the two factors.
Without predators, the species that is the best competitor for food, shelter, nesting sites, and other environmental resources tends to dominate and exclude the species with which it competes.
A groundwater reservoir from which water can be extracted is called an aquifer.
Between sediment grains are spaces that can be filled with water.
Porosity is important for water-storage capacity, but for water to flow through rocks, the pore spaces must be connected.
In the intergranular spaces of rocks, however, fluid must flow around and between grains in a tortuous path; this winding path causes a resistance to flow.The rate at which the flowing water overcomes this resistance is related to the permeability of rock.
Sedimentary rocks  the most common rock type near the surface  are also the most common reservoirs for water because they contain the most space that can be filled with water.Sandstones generally make good aquifers, while finer-grained mudstones are typically impermeable.
Igneous and metamorphic rocks are more compact, commonly crystalline, and rarely contain spaces between grains.
The water table is the underground boundary below which all the cracks and pores are filled with water.
In some cases, the water table reaches Earth's surface, where it is expressed as rivers, lakes, and marshes.Typically, though, the water table may be tens or hundreds of meters below the surface.The water table is not flat but usually follows the contours of the topography.
Water in the vadose zone drains down to the water table, leaving behind a thin coating of water on mineral grains.
If the water table intersects the land surface, groundwater will flow out onto the surface at springs, either to be collected there or to subsequently flow farther along a drainage.
Groundwater commonly collects in stream drainages but may remain entirely beneath the surface of dry stream-beds in arid regions.
In particularly wet years, short stretches of an otherwise dry stream-bed may have flowing water because the water table rises to intersect the land surface.
The Sahara is a highly diverse, albeit dry, region that has undergone major climatic changes since 10,000 B.C.
This was a landscape where antelope of all kinds abounded  along with Bos primigenius, a kind of oxen that has become extinct.
Even before the drought, the Sahara was never well watered.
Under these circumstances, archaeologist Andrew Smith believes, the small herds of Bos primigenius in the desert became smaller, more closely knit breeding units as the drought took hold.
The beasts were more disciplined, so that it was easier for hunters to predict their habits, and capture animals at will.
Smith believes that the hunters were well aware of the more disciplined ways in which their prey behaved.
Instead of following the cattle on their annual migrations, the hunters began to prevent the herd from moving from one spot to another.
The newly domesticated animals behaved better, were easier to control, and may have enjoyed a higher birth rate, which in turn yielded greater milk supplies.
It is still unclear whether domesticated cattle were tamed independently in northern Africa or introduced to the continent from Southwest Asia.Whatever the source of the original tamed herds might have been, it seems entirely likely that much the same process of juxtaposition (living side by side) and control occurred in both Southwest Asia and northern Africa, and even in Europe, among peoples who had an intimate knowledge of the behavior of wild cattle.
Their artistic endeavors have been preserved in paintings of wild animals, cattle, goats, humans, and scenes of daily life that extend back perhaps to 5000 B.C.
The Sahara slowly became drier and lakes vanished.
Adult male deer usually produce rubs in late summer or early autumn when the outervelvet layer is being shed from their antlers.
Rubs are created about one to two months before the breeding season (the rut).Hence for a long time biologists believed that male deer used buck rubs not only to clean and polish antlers but also to provide practice for the ensuing male-to-male combat during the rut.
These odors make buck rubs an important means of olfactory communication between deer.
The importance of olfactory communication (using odors to communicate) in the way of life of deer was documented by a study of captive adult mule deer a few decades ago, which noted that males rubbed their foreheads on branches and twigs, especially as autumn approached.
A decade later another study reported that adult male white-tailed deer exhibited forehead rubbing just before and during the rut.
This forehead rubbing behavior coincides with a high level of glandular activity in the modified scent glands found on the foreheads of male deer; the glandular activity causes the forehead pelage (hairy covering) of adult males to be distinctly darker than in females or younger males.
Forehead rubbing by male deer on buck rubs presumably sends a great deal of information to other members of the same species.
Second, because only male deer rub, the buck rub and its associated chemicals indicate the sex of the deer producing the rub.
Thus, the presence of many well-marked rubs is indicative of older, higher-status males being in the general vicinity rather than simply being a crude measure of relative deer abundance in a given area.
In view of this behavior it has been suggested that chemicals present in fresh buck rubs may help physiologically induce and synchronize fertility in females that visit these rubs.
This would be an obvious advantage to wide-ranging deer, especially to a socially dominant buck when courting several adult females during the autumn rut.
Buck scrapes are generally created after leaf-fall in autumn, which is just before or during the rut.
However, it is impossible to do justice to Roman wares on the page, even when words can be backed up by photographs and drawings.
With handmade pottery, inevitably there are slight differences between individual vessels of the same design and occasional minor blemishes (flaws).
This is not just an aesthetic consideration but also a practical one.These vessels are solid (brittle, but not fragile), they are pleasant and easy to handle (being light and smooth), and, with their hard and sometimes glossy (smooth and shiny) surfaces, they hold liquids well and are easy to wash.
When people today are shown a very ordinary Roman pot and, in particular, are allowed to handle it, they often comment on how modern it looks and feels, and they need to be convinced of its true age.
Unfortunately, it is in the nature of the archaeological evidence, which is almost invariably only a sample of what once existed, that such figures will always be elusive.
However, there is one exceptional dump, which does represent a very large part of the site's total history of consumption and for which an estimate of quantity has been produced.
On the left bank of the Tiber River in Rome, by one of the river ports of the ancient city, is a substantial hill some 50 meters high called Monte Testaccio.
It has been estimated that Monte Testaccio contains the remains of some 53 million amphorae, in which around 6,000 million liters of oil were imported into the city from overseas, imports into imperial Rome were supported by the full might of the state and were therefore quite exceptional  but the size of the operations at Monte Testaccio, and the productivity and complexity that lay behind them, nonetheless cannot fail to impress.
But maps that show the various spots where Roman pottery of a particular type has been found tell only part of the story.
The existence of competition has been long known to naturalists; its effects were described by Darwin in considerable detail.
This was described by Darwin for indigenous New Zealand species of animals and plants, which died out when competing species from Europe were introduced.
Furthermore, most species do not depend entirely on a single resource, if the major resource for a species becomes scarce, the species can usually shift to alternative resources.
The effects of such competition are graphically demonstrated when all the animals or all the plants in an ecosystem come into competition, as happened 2 million years ago at the end of the Pliocene, when North and South America became joined by the Isthmus of Panama.
To what extent competition determines the composition of a community and the density of particular species has been the source of considerable controversy.
The problem is that competition ordinarily cannot be observed directly but must be inferred from the spread or increase of one species and the concurrent reduction or disappearance of another species.
The Russian biologist G.F. Gause performed numerous two-species experiments in the laboratory, in which one of the species became extinct when only a single kind of resource was available.
Numerous seeming exceptions to this law have since been found, but they can usually be explained as cases in which the two species, even though competing for a major joint resource, did not really occupy exactly the same niche.
The evolutionary effect of competition on species has been referred to as "species selection;" however, this description is potentially misleading.
The effect on the well-being and existence of a species is just the result of the effects of selection on all the individuals of the species.
In the case of animals it is usually food; in the case of forest plants it may be light; in the case of substrate inhabitants it may be space, as in many shallow-water bottom-dwelling marine organisms.
Indeed, it may be for any of the factors, physical as well as biotic, that are essential for organisms.
Moving water was one of the earliest energy sources to be harnessed to reduce the workload of people and animals.
In the following centuries, increasingly sophisticated waterpower mills were built throughout the Roman Empire and beyond its boundaries in the Middle East and northern Europe.
The coal-fired steam engine was taking over, and the waterwheel was fast becoming obsolete.
The waterwheel, unaltered for nearly 2,000 years, had finally been superseded.
Half a century of development was needed before Faraday's discoveries in electricity were translated into full-scale power stations.
Depending on the species, play may be primarily for social interaction, exercise, or exploration.
One of the problems is providing a clear definition of play is that it involves the same behaviors that take place in other circumstances---dominance, predation, competition, and real fighting.
Thus, whether play occurs or not depends on the intention of the animal, and intentions are not always clear from behavior alone.
Play appears to be a developmental characteristic of animals with fairly sophisticated nervous systems, mainly birds and mammals.
Play has been studied most extensively in primates and canids(dogs).
Exactly why animals play is still a matter debated in the research literature, and the reasons may not be the same for every species that plays.
Determining the functions of play is difficult because the functions may be long-term, with beneficial effects not showing up until the animal  s adulthood.
Therefore, it results in the loss of fuel or energy that might better be used for growth or for building up fat stores in a young animal.
Another potential cost of this activity is greater exposure to predators since play is attention-getting behavior.
Some of he potential benefits relate directly to the healthy development of the brain and nervous system.
Other studies have shown that greater stimulation not only affects the size of the brain but also increases the number of connections between the nerve cells.
Thus, active play may provide necessary stimulation to the growth of synaptic connections in the brain, especially the cerebellum, which is responsible for motor functioning and movements.
Play can also provide practice in social behaviors needed for courtship and mating.
Learning appropriate social behaviors is especially important in species that live in groups, like young monkeys that need to learn to control selfishness and aggression and to understand the give-and-take involved in social groups.
They need to learn how to be dominant and submissive because each monkey might have to play either role in the future.
There is a danger, of course, that play may be misinterpreted or not recognized as play by others, potentially leading to aggression.
This is especially true when play consists of practicing normal aggressive or predatory behaviors.
Dogs, for example, will wag their tails, get down on their front legs, and stick their behinds in the air to indicate   what follows is just for play  .
By the early twentieth century, the question about the rate of evolution had been answered in favor of gradualism to most biologists   satisfaction.
Sometimes a closed question must be reopened as new evidence or new arguments based on old evidence come to light.
The punctuated equilibrium hypothesis attempts to explain a curious feature of the fossil record    one that has been familiar to paleontologists for more than a century but has usually been ignored.
Many species appear to remain unchanged in the fossil record for millions of years    a situation that seems to be at odds with Darwin  s model of continuous change.
In most localities a given species of clam or coral persists essentially unchanged throughout a thick formation of rock, only to be replaced suddenly by a new and different species.
The four-toed Eohippus preceded the three-toed Miohippus, for example, but North American fossil evidence suggests a jerky, uneven transition between the two.
If evolution had been a continuous, gradual process, one might expect that almost every fossil specimen would be slightly different from every other. 
The question about the rate of evolution must now be turned around: does evolution ever proceed gradually, or does it always occur in short bursts?
Detailed field studies of thick rock formations containing fossils provide the best potential tests of the competing theories.
In that study, each of eight different trilobite species was observed to undergo a gradual change in the number of segments    typically an increase of one or two segments over the whole time interval.
Slow, continuous change may be the norm during periods of environmental stability, while rapid evolution of new species occurs during periods of environmental stress.
But a lot more studies like Sheldon  s are needed before we can say for sure.
In Europe, before the introduction of the mechanical clock, people told time by sun (using, for example, shadow sticks or sun dials) and water clocks.
Sun clocks worked, of course, only on clear days; water clocks misbehaved when the temperature fell toward freezing, to say nothing of long-run drift as the result of sedimentation and clogging.
Both these devices worked well in sunny climates; but in Northern Europe the sun may be hidden by clouds for weeks at a time, while temperatures vary not only seasonally but from day to night.
The Catholic Church had its seven daily prayers, one of which was at night, requiring an alarm arrangement to waken monks before dawn.
It seems to have appeared in Italy and England (perhaps simultaneous invention) between 1275 and 1300.
Day and night were divided into the same number of parts, so that except at the equinoxes, day and night hours were unequal; and then of course the length of these hours varied with the seasons.
From the start, however, the towns and cities took equal hours as their standard, and the public clocks installed in town halls and market squares became the very symbol of a new, secular municipal authority.
Its general accuracy could be checked against easily observed phenomena, like the rising and setting of the sun.
At every stage, clockmakers led the way to accuracy and precision; they became masters of miniaturization, detectors and correctors of error, searchers for new and better.
Evolutionary biologists believe that speciation, the formation of a new species, often begins when some kind of physical barrier arises and divides a population of a single species into separate subpopulations.
Physical separation between subpopulations promotes the formation of new species because once the members of one subpopulation can no longer mate with members of another subpopulation, they cannot exchange variant genes that arise in one of the subpopulations.
In the absence of gene flow between the subpopulations, genetic differences between the groups begin to accumulate.
Eventually the subpopulations become so genetically distinct that they cannot interbreed even if the physical barriers between them were removed.
Allopatric speciation may be the main speciation route.
This should not be surprising, since allopatry is pretty common.
The change separated populations of insects now living along opposite shore, completely cutting off gene flow between them.
Allopatric speciation can also be brought by the imperceptibly slow but colossal movements of the tectonic plates that make up Earth  s surface.
About 5 million years ago such geologic movements created the land bridge between North America and South America that we call he Isthmus of Panama.
While previously the gap between the continents had allowed a free flow of water, now the isthmus presented a barrier that divided the Atlantic Ocean from the Pacific Ocean.
Graves found that all for Pacific enzymes function better at lower temperatures than the four Atlantic versions of the same enzymes.
This is significant because Pacific seawater is typically 2 to 3 degrees cooler than seawater on the Atlantic side of Isthmus.
This is significant because the amino acid sequence of an enzyme is determined by genes. 
First, at least some of the observed differences between the enzymes of the Atlantic and Pacific fish populations were not random but were the result of evolutionary adaptation.
Because Graves  s study of geographically isolated populations of Isthmus fishes offers a glimpse of the beginning of a process of gradual accumulation of mutations that are neutral or adaptive, divergences here might be evidence of allopatric speciation in process. 
Whereas parents in China tend to see preschools primarily as a way of giving children a good start academically, Japanese parents view them primarily as a way of giving children the opportunity to be members of a group.
In the United States, the best-known program designed to promote future academic success is Head Start.
Preschoolers who participate in Head Start are better prepared for future schooling than those who do not.
Furthermore, graduates of Head Start programs have better future school grade.
The most recent comprehensive evaluation of early intervention programs suggests that, taken as a group, preschools programs can provide significant benefits, and that government funds invested early in life may ultimately lead to a reduction in future costs.
For instance, compared with children who did not participate in early intervention programs, participants in various programs showed gains in emotional or cognitive development, better educational outcomes, increased economic self-sufficiency, reduced level of criminal activity, and improved health-related behaviors.
Of course, not every program produced all these benefits, and not every child benefited to the same extent.
Still, the results of the evaluation were promising, suggesting that the potential benefits of early intervention can be substantial. 
In fact, according to developmental psychologist David Elkind, United States society tends to push children so rapidly that they begin to feel tress and pressure at a young age.
Consequently, children of a particular age cannot be expected to master educational material without taking into account their current level of cognitive development.
There is no simple or single factor that determines if a given site will be a savanna, but some factors seem to play important roles in their formation.
One theory behind savanna formation is that wet forest species are unable to withstand the dry season, and thus a savanna, rather than a rain forest, is favored on the site.
Savannas experience an annual rainfall of between 1,000 and 2,000 millimeters, most of it falling in a five- to eight-month wet season.
These soils usually contain large amounts of clay and easily become water-saturated.
Are cannot penetrate between the soil particles, making the soil oxygen-poor.
Sandy soils are prone to the leaching of nutrients and minerals and so tend to be nutritionally poor.
Though most savannas are found on sites with poor soils(because of either moisture conditions or nutrient levels of both), poor soils can and do support lush rain forest. 
Once the humus layer disappears, nutrients cannot be recycled and leach from the soil, converting soil from fertile to infertile and making it suitable only for savanna vegetation.
The rate at which a site is colonized by plants depends on both the rate at which individual organisms (seeds, spores, immature or mature individuals) arrive at the site and their success at becoming established and surviving.
Success in colonization depends to a great extent on there being a site available for colonization---a safe site where disturbance by fire or by cutting down of trees has either removed competing species or reduced levels of competition and other negative interactions to a level at which the invading species can become established.
For a given rate of invasion, colonization of a moist, fertile site is likely to be much more rapid than that of a dry, infertile site because of poor survival on the latter.
A fertile, plowed field is rapidly invaded by a large variety of weeds, whereas a neighboring construction site from which the soil has been compacted or removed to expose a coarse, infertile parent material may remain virtually free of vegetation for many months or even years despite receiving the same input of seeds as the plowed field. 
Pioneer species--- those that occur only in the earliest stages of colonization--- tend to have high rates of invasion because they produce very large numbers of reproductive propagules (seeds, spores, and so on) and because they have an efficient means of dispersal (normally, wind).
If colonizers produce short-lived reproductive propagules, then they must produce very large numbers unless they have an efficient means of dispersal to suitable new habitats.
Many forest plants seem to exhibit the latter adaptation, and viable seeds of pioneer species can be found in large numbers on some forest floors.
An adaptation that is well developed in colonizing species is a high degree of variation in germination (the beginning of a seed  s growth).
This is particularly important for species that colonize an environment where there is no existing vegetation to ameliorate climatic extremes and in which there maybe great climatic diversity.
The first community that occupies a disturbed area therefore may be composed of species with the highest rate of invasion, whereas the community of the subsequent stage may consist of plants with similar survival rates but lower invasion rates.
The old ruling families were being displaced by an evolving centralized government.
These families were pensioned off(given a sum of money to live on) or simply had their revenues taken away or restricted; their sons were enticed away to schools for district officers, later to be posted in some faraway  province; and the old patron-client relations that had bound together local societies simply disintegrated.
They were able to do so because of our second consideration.
They were relatively freer than they had been half a century earlier.
Peasants now paid a tax on individuals instead of being required to render labor service to the government.
Under these conditions, it made good sense to thousands of peasant families to in effect work full-time at what they had been able to do only part-time previously because of the requirement to work for the government: grow rice for the marketplace. 
The rural population both dispersed and grew, and was probably less homogeneous and more mobile than it hand been a generation earlier.
The villages became more vulnerable to arbitrary treatment by government bureaucrats as local elites now hand less control over them.
By the early twentieth century, as government modernization in a sense caught up with what had been happening in the countryside since the 1870s, the government bureaucracy intruded more and more into village life.
Provincial police began to appear, along with district officers and cattle registration and land deeds and registration for compulsory military service.
As well as can be measured, rural standards of living improved in the Fifth Reign.
In 1977 ecologists Stephen Hubbell and Leslie Johnson recorded a dramatic example of how social interactions can produce and enforce regular spacing in a population.
They studied competition and nest spacing in populations of stingless bees in tropical dry forests in Costa Rica.
Though these bees do no sting, rival colonies of some species fight fiercely over potential nesting sites.
Stingless bees are abundant in tropical and subtropical environments, where they gather nectar and pollen from a wide variety of flowers.
Hubbell and Johnson observed that some species of stingless bees are highly aggressive to members of their species from other colonies, while other species are not.
Hubbell and Johnson studied several species of stingless bees to determine whether there is a relationship between aggressiveness and patterns of colony distribution.
They concentrated their studies on a thirteen-hectare tract of tropical dry forest that contained numerous nests of nine species of stingless bees.
Though Hubbell and Johnson were interested in how bee behavior might affect colony distributions, they recognized that the availability of potential nest sites for colonies could also affect distributions.
They also found that the number of potential nest sites was much greater than the number of bee colonies.
The number of colonies in the study area was not limited by availability of suitable trees, and a clumped or regular distribution of colonies was not due to an underlying clumped or regular distribution of potential nest sites.
Hubbell and Johnson mapped the nests of five of the nine species of stingless bees accurately, and the nests of four of these species were distributed regularly.
All four species with regular nest distributions were highly aggressive to bees from other colonies of their own species.
Aggressive species apparently mark prospective nest sites with pheromones, chemical substances secreted by some animals for communication with other members of their species.
The pheromone secreted by these stingless bees attracts and aggregates members of their colony to the prospective nest site; however, it also attracts workers from other nests.
Fights may be escalated into protracted battles.
In the displays, pairs of bees faced each other, slowly flew vertically to a height of about three meters, and then grappled each other to the ground.
When the two bees hit the ground, they separated, faced off, and performed another aerial display.
Bees did not appear to be injured in these fights, which were apparently ritualized.
The two swarms abandoned the battle at about 8 or 9 A.M. each morning, only to re-form and begin again the next day just after dawn.
While this contest over an unoccupied nest site produced no obvious mortality, fights over occupied nests sometimes kill over 1,000 bees in a single battle. 
Evidence suggests that an important stimulus behind the rise of early civilizations was the development of settled agriculture, which unleashed a series of changes in the organization of human communities that culminated in the rise of large ancient empires.
Many prehistorians believe that farming may have emerged in dependently in several different areas of the world when small communities, driven by increasing population and a decline in available food resources, began to plant seeds in the ground in an effort to guarantee their survival.
The real breakthrough took place when farmers began to cultivate crops along the floodplains of river systems.
An additional benefit was that the sediment carried by the river waters deposited nutrients in the soil, thus enabling the farmer to cultivate a single plot of ground for many years without moving to a new location.
In time, the   big men   become formal symbols of authority and pass on that authority to others within their own family.
As the communities continue to grow in size and material wealth, the   big men   assume hereditary status, and their allies and family members are transformed into a hereditary monarchy.
The appearance of these sedentary societies had a major impact on the social organizations, religious beliefs, and way of life of the peoples living within their boundaries.
Some people became artisans or merchants, while others became warriors, scholars, or priests.
Farmers along the tracks began to specialize in corps that they could market in distant locations.
Chicago became the region  s hub, linking the farms of the upper Midwest to New York and other eastern cities by more than 2,000 miles of track in 1855.
A sharp rise in demand for grain abroad also encouraged farmers in the Northeast and Midwest to become more commercially oriented.
As railroad lines fanned out from Chicago, farmers began to acquire open prairie land in Illinois and then Iowa, putting the fertile, deep black soil into production.
Native Americans had grown corn in the region for years, but never in such large fields as did later settlers who became farmers, whose surpluses were shipped east.
Native grasses were replaced by a small number of plants cultivated as commodities.
Corn had the best yields, but it was primarily used to feed livestock.
Because bread played a key role in the American and European diet, wheat became the major cash crop.
In the absence of these fires, trees reappeared on land not in cultivation and, if undisturbed, eventually formed woodlots.
It was not until the Cambrian period, beginning about 600 million years ago, that a great proliferation of macroscopic species occurred on Earth and produced a fossil record that allows us to track the rise and fall of biodiversity.
Since the Cambrian period, biodiversity has generally risen, but there have been some notable exceptions.
Biodiversity collapsed dramatically during at least five periods because of mass extinctions around the globe.
The best known of the five major extinction events, the one that saw the demise of the dinosaurs, is the Cretaceous-Tertiary extinction.
However, no group or species can maintain its dominance indefinitely, and when, after over 200 million years, the age of dinosaurs came to a dramatic end about 65 million years ago, mammals began to flourish, evolving from relatively few types of small terrestrial animals into the myriad of diverse species, including bats and whales, that we know today.
Paleontologists label this point in Earth  s history as the end of the Cretaceous period and the beginning of the Tertiary period, often abbreviated as the K-T boundary.
Overall, about 38 percent of the families of marine animals were lost, with percentages much higher in some groups Ammonoid mollusks went from being very diverse and abundant to being extinct.
The number of flowering plants (angiosperms) was reduced at this time, but they then began to increase dramatically.
For many years scientists assumed that a cooling of the climate was responsible, with dinosaurs being particularly vulnerable because, like modern reptiles, they were ectothermic (dependent on environmental heat, or cold-blooded).
It is now widely believed that at least some species of dinosaurs had a metabolic rate high enough for them to be endotherms (animals that maintain a relatively consistent body temperature by generating heat internally).
Nevertheless, climatic explanations for the K-T extinction are not really challenged by the ideas that dinosaurs may have been endothermic, because even endotherms can be affected by a significant change in the climate.
They believed that this impact generated a thick cloud of dust that enveloped Earth, shutting out much of the incoming solar radiation and reducing plant photosynthesis to very low levels.
At locations around the globe, geologists had found an unusually high concentration of iridium in the layer of sedimentary rocks that was formed about 65 million years ago.
This came about from two major developments: paper became common, replacing parchment as the major medium for writing, and rounded scripts were regularized and perfected so that they replaced the angular scripts of the previous period, which because of their angularity were uneven in height.
Books became major vehicles for artistic expression, and the artists who produced them, notably calligraphers and painters, enjoyed high status, and their workshops were often sponsored by princes and their courts.
Before A.D. 900, manuscripts of the Koran (the book containing the teachings of the Islamic religion) seem to have been the most common type of book produced and decorated, but after that date a wide range of books were produced for a broad spectrum of patrons.
These continued to include, of course, manuscripts of the Koran, which every Muslim wanted to read, but scientific works, histories, romances, and epic and lyric poetry were also copied in fine handwriting and decorated with beautiful illustrations.
Papermaking had been introduced to the Islamic lands from China in the eighth century.
It has been said that Chinese papermakers were among the prisoners captured in a battle fought near Samarqand between the Chinese and the Muslims in 751, and the technique of papermaking---in which cellulose pulp extracted from any of several plants is first suspended in water, caught on a fine screen, and then dried into flexible sheets---slowly spread westward.
Writing in ink on paper, unlike parchment, could not easily be erased, and therefore paper had the advantage that it was difficult to alter what was written on it.
Papermaking spread quickly to Egypt---and eventually to Sicily and Spain---but it was several centuries before paper supplanted parchment for copies of the Koran, probably because of the conservative nature of religious art and its practitioners.
In western Islamic land, parchment continued to be used for manuscripts of the Koran throughout this period. 
The introduction of paper spurred a conceptual revolution whose consequences have barely been explored.
Although paper was never as cheap as it has become today, it was far less expensive than parchment, and therefore more people could afford to buy books.
Paper is thinner than parchment, so more pages could be enclosed within a single volume.
At first, paper was made in relatively small sheets that were pasted together, but by the beginning of the fourteenth century, very large sheets---as much as a meter across---were available.
Paintings became more complicated, giving the artist greater opportunities to depict space or emotion.
This in turn allowed the easy transfer of artistic ideas and motifs over great distances, from one medium to another, and in a different scale in ways that had been difficult, if not impossible, in the previous period. 
Rounded styles of Arabic handwriting had long been used for correspondence and documents alongside the formal angular scripts used for inscriptions and manuscripts of the Koran.
He standardized the length of alif, the first letter of the Arabic alphabet, and then determined what the size and shape of all other letters should be, based on the alif.
Eventually, six round forms of handwriting, composed of three pairs of big and little scripts known collectively as the Six Pens, became the standard repertory of every calligrapher. 
Because of the growth of population, most of the great forests of medieval Britain had long ago been replaced by fields of grain and hay.
Vast forests enabled Russia to become the world  s leading producer of iron, much of which was exported to Britain.
By 1640 most homes in London were heated with it, and it also provided heat for making beer, glass, soap, and other products.
Mechanical pumps, usually powered by hundreds of horses walking in circles at the surface, had to be installed.
In 1763, Watt was called on to repair a Newcomen engine being used in a physics course.
After a series of observations, Watt saw that the Newcomen  s waste of energy could be reduced by adding a separate condenser.
The steam power plant began to replace waterpower in the cotton-spinning mills as well as other industries during the 1780s, contributing to a phenomenal rise in industrialization.
The use of powerful, steam-driven bellows in blast furnaces helped iron makers switch over rapidly from limited charcoal to unlimited coke (which is made from coal) in the smelting of pig iron (the process of refining impure iron) after 1770.
In the 1780s, Henry Cort developed the puddling furnace, which allowed pig iron to be refined in turn with coke.
Once scarce and expensive, iron became cheap, basic, and indispensable to the economy.
Many plants  one or more species of at least 68 different families  can secrete nectar even when they have no blossoms, because they bear extrafloral nectaries (structures that produce nectar) on stems, leaves, leaf stems, or other structures.
Nevertheless, most ecologists believe that all extrafloral nectaries attract insects that will defend the plant. 
Biologists once thought that secretion of extrafloral nectar has some purely internal physiological function, and that ants provide no benefit whatsoever to the plants that secrete it.
This view and the opposing   protectionist   hypothesis that ants defend plants hand been disputed for over a hundred years when, in 1910, a skeptical William Morton Wheeler commented on the controversy.
He called for proof of the protectionist view: that visitations of the ants confer protection on the plants and that in the absence of the protectionist view: that visitations of the ants confer protection on the plants and that in the absence of the insects a much greater number would perish or fail to produce flowers or seeds than when the insects are present.
That we now have an abundance of the proof that was called for was established when Barbara Bentley reviewed the relevant evidence in 1977, and since then many more observations and experiments have provided still further proof that ants benefit plants.
Caterpillars and seed beetles affect seed production directly.
Caterpillars devour the ovaries, where the seeds are produced, and seed beetle larvae eat seeds as they burrow in developing fruits.
Observations leave little doubt that ants protect morning glory flowers and fruits from the combined enemy force of grasshoppers, caterpillars, and seed beetles.
Seed beetles are more vulnerable because they are much smaller than grasshoppers.
The ants prey on the adult beetles, disturb females as they lay their eggs on developing fruits, and eat many of the eggs they do manage to lay. 
More important than the amount of time Herodotus computed, which turns out to be trivial compared with the age of Earth, was the notion that one could estimate ages of geologic features by determining rates of the processes responsible for such features, and then assuming the rates to be roughly constant over time.
Similar applications of this concept were to be used again and again in later centuries to estimate the ages of rock formations and, in particular, of layers of sediment that had compacted and cemented to form sedimentary rocks.
Forces associated with subterranean heat cause land to be uplifted into plateaus and mountain ranges.
Over time, the layers become sedimentary rock.
Hutton's concept represented a remarkable insight because it unified many individual phenomena and observations into a conceptual picture of Earth  s history.
With the further assumption that these geologic processes were generally no more or less vigorous than they are today, Hutton's examination of sedimentary layers led him to realize that Earth's history must be enormous, that geologic time is an abyss and human history a speck by comparison.
Typical numbers produced at the turn of the twentieth century were 100 million to 400 million years.
These underestimated the actual age by factors of 10 to 50 because much of the sedimentary record is missing in various locations and because there is a long rock sequence that is older than half a billion years that is far less well defined in terms of fossils and less well preserved.
It had been recognized by the German philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724-1804) that chemical reactions could not supply the tremendous amount of energy flowing from the Sun for more than about a millennium.
From the initial work came a suite of discoveries leading to radio isotopic dating, which quickly led to the realization that Earth must be billions of years old, and to the discovery of nuclear fusion as an energy source capable of sustaining the Sun's luminosity for that amount of time.
The organization of such societies could be rather simple, revolving around age and gender categories.
Such societies likely were largely egalitarian, beyond distinctions based on age and gender: virtually all people had equivalent rights, status, and access to resources.
Since women are less fertile when they are breast-feeding, substituting cereals for mother  s milk would have resulted in closer spacing of births and the potential for a greater number of live births for each woman.
These more vulnerable members of society could safely stay in a fixed village rather than be forced regularly to move great distances as part of a nomadic existence, with its greater risk of accidents and trauma.
However, good land may itself be limited    for example, to within the confines of a river valley.
The impulse to produce more food to feed a growing population was satisfied in some areas by the development of more-complex subsistence strategies involving intensive labor and requiring more cooperation and greater coordination among the increasing numbers of people.
Hierarchies that did not exist in earlier foraging groups but that were helpful in structuring cooperative labor and in organizing more-complex technologies probably became established, even before domestication and agriculture, as pre-Neolithic societies (before the tenth millennium B C E) reacted to the population increase.
Considering that seasonal succession is most often and clearly seen in temperate seas, which have a marked change in temperature during a year, temperature has been suggested as a cause.
This may be one of the factors, but it is unlikely to be the sole cause because there are species that become dominant species at various temperatures.
But the effect of secretions by all the individuals of the dominant species can be significant both for themselves and for other species.
These organic metabolites could, and probably do, include a number of different classes of organic compounds.
In such cases, the population explosion of dinoflagellates is so great that the water becomes brownish red in color from the billions of dinoflagellate cells.
Although each cell secretes a minute amount of toxin, the massive dinoflagellate numbers cause the toxin to reach concentrations that kill many creatures.
This toxin can be concentrated in such filter-feeding organisms as clams and mussels, rendering them toxic to humans.
The B vitamins, especially vitamin B12, thiamine and biotin, seem to be the most generally required.
Some species may be unable to thrive until a particular vitamin, or group of vitamins, is present in the water.
Although it is suspected that these organic metabolites may have an important role in species succession and it has been demonstrated in the laboratory that phytoplankton species vary both in their ability to produce necessary vitamins and in their requirements for such in order to grow, evidence is still inadequate as to their real role in the sea.
These include many important agricultural crops, such as alfalfa, clover, soybeans, peas, and peanuts.
For example, in highly acidic soils where few bacteria can survive, fungi frequently become the chief decomposers of organic matter. 
In addition, trees can extend their roots deep within the soil and bring up nutrients from far below the surface.
Insects such as ants and termites also can be exceedingly numerous under favorable climatic and soil conditions.
In addition, mammals such as moles, field mice, gophers, and prairie dogs sometimes are present in sufficient numbers to have significant impact on the soil.
In 1841 Edward Forbes was offered the chance to serve as naturalist aboard HMS Beacon, an English Royal Navy ship assigned to survey the Aegean Sea.
During that time Forbes was able to drag this small, triangular dregdge--a tool with a leather net for capturing creatures along the sea bottom--at a hundred locations, at depths ranging from 6 to 1380 feet.
Forbes also thought he saw, as he later told the British Association, that   the number of species and individuals diminishes as we descend, pointing to a zero in the distribution of animal life as yet unvisited.
This zero, Forbes casually speculated--he simply extended a line on his graph of animal number versus depth--probably began at a depth of 1,800 feet.
Below that was the final zone in Forbes  s scheme, zone nine, a zone that covered most of the ocean floor and thus most of the solid surface of Earth: Forbes called this the azoic zone, where no animal, to say nothing of plants, could survive. 
Forbes  s azoic zone was entirely plausible at the time, and it was certainly far from the strangest idea that was then entertained about the deep sea.
A more popular belief at the time was that water at great depth would be compressed to such a density that nothing could sink through it.
They imagined the deep sea as being filled with an unmoving and undisturbable pool of cold, dense water.
In reality the deep is always being refreshed by cold water sinking from above.
The central implication of all these misconceptions was that nothing could live in the abyss (deep), just as Forbes  s observations seemed to indicate.
But Forbes erred in two ways.
Although the Aegean had been the birthplace of marine biology, its depths are now known to be exceptionally lacking in animal diversity.
Moreover, through no fault of his own, Forbes was not particularly successful at sampling such life as did exist at the bottom of the Aegean.
Many of those it did catch must have poured out of its open mouth when Forbes reeled it in.
As it turned out, the existence of the azoic zone had been disproved even before Forbes suggested it, and the theory continued to be contradicted regularly throughout its long and influential life.
Searching for the Northwest Passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific in 1818, Sir John Ross had lowered his   deep-sea clam  --a sort of bivalved sediment scoop--into the water of Baffin Bay ( an inlet between the Atlantic and Arctic oceans), which the determined to be more than a thousand fathoms deep in some places.
Modern soundings indicate he overestimated his depths by several hundred fathoms, but in any case Ross  s clam dove several times deeper than Forbes  s dredge.
It brought back mud laced with worms, and starfish that dad entangled themselves in the line at depths well below the supposed boundary of the azoic zone.
One of the most thoroughly analyzed examples of natural selection in operation is the change in color that has occurred in certain populations of the peppered moth, Biston betularia, in industrial regions of Europe during the past 100 years.
Over a period of decades, dark-colored forms became an increasingly large fraction of some populations and eventually came to dominate peppered moth populations in certain areas  especially those of extreme industrialization such as the Ruhr Valley of Germany and the Midlands of England.
If natural selection was the explanation, then there should be different survival rates for dark- and light-colored moths.
In industrialized areas, lichens are destroyed by pollution, tree barks become darker, and dark moths are the ones birds have difficulty detecting.
Not every researcher has been convinced that natural selection by birds is the only explanation of the observed frequencies of dark and light peppered moths.
Sir Cyril Clarke has been trapping moths at his home in Liverpool, Merseyside, since 1959.
Before about 1975, 90 percent of the moths were dark, but since then there has been a steep decline in melanic forms, and in 1989 only 29.6 percent of the moths caught were melanic.
The mean concentration of sulphur dioxide pollution fell from about 300 micrograms per cubic meter in 1970 to less than 50 micrograms per cubic meter in 1975 and has remained fairly constant since then If the spread of the light-colored form of the moth continues at the same speed as the melanic form spread in the last century, soon the melanic form will again be only an occasional resident of the Liverpool area.
), the best known of the earliest Greek philosophers, made the first steps toward a new, more objective approach to finding out about the world.
Many others had asked the same question before him, but Thales based his answer strictly on what he had observed and what he could reason out--not on imaginative stories about the gods or the supernatural.
His two best-known followers, though there were undoubtedly others who attained less renown, were Anaximander and Anaximenes.
Both were also from Miletus ( located on the southern coast of present-day Turkey) and so, like Thales, were members of the Milesian School.
Much more is known about Anaximander than about Anaximenes, probably because Anaximander, who was born sometime around 610 BCE, ambitiously attempted to write a comprehensive history of the universe.
As would later happen between another teacher-student pair of philosophers, Plato and Aristotle, Anaximander disagreed with his teacher despite his respect for him.
He doubted that the world and all its contents could be made of water and proposed instead a formless and unobservable substance he called   apeiron   that was the source of all matter.
Although he did not accept that water was the prime element, he did believe that all life originated in the sea, and he was thus one of the first to conceive of this important idea.
He believed, though, that the shape of Earth was that of a cylinder rather than the sphere that later Greek philosophers would conjecture.
Unfortunately, too, most of the written work fo Anaximenes, who may have been Anaximander  s pupil, has also been lost.
Compressed, it became water and earth, and when rarefied or thinned out, it heated up to become fire.
Anaximenes may have also been the first to study rainbows and speculate upon their natural rather than supernatural cause. 
With the door opened by Thales and the other early philosophers of Milestus, Greek thinkers began to speculate about the nature of the universe.
It is possible for anyone to create   ideas   about the nature and structure of the universe, for instance, and many times these ideas can be so consistent and elaborately structured, or just so apparently obvious, that they can be persuasive to many people.
Without experimentation and objective, critical testing of their theories, the best these thinkers could hope to achieve was some internally consistent speculation that covered all the bases and satisfied the demands of reason. 
It is becoming increasingly common for conservationists to move individual animals or entire species from one site to another.
This may be either to establish a new population where a population of conspecifics ( animals or plants belonging to the same species) has become extinct or to add individuals to an existing population.
Direct translocation has been used a wide range of plants and animals and was carried out to maintain populations as a source of food long before conservation was a familiar term.
The number of translocations carried out under the banner of conservation has increased rapidly, and this has led to criticism of the technique because of the lack of evaluation of its efficacy and because of its potential disadvantages.
In a fragmented landscape where many populations and habitats are isolated from others, translocations can play an effective role in conservation strategies; they can increase the number of existing populations or increase the size, genetic diversity, and demographic balance of a small population, consequently increasing its chances of survival. 
Last but not least of these considerations is the effort and resources required in this type of action, which need to be justified by evidence of the likely benefits. 
Despite the large number of tranlocations that have taken place, there is surprisingly little evidence of the efficacy of such actions.
This is partly because many translocations have not been strictly for conservation; neither have they been official nor legal, let alone scientific in their approach.
Successful translocations inevitably get recorded and gain attention, whereas failures may never be recorded at all.
Is translocation successful if the individuals survive the first week or a year, or do they need to reproduce for one or several generations  Whatever the answer, it is clear that a general framework is required to ensure that any translocation is justified, has a realistic chance of success, and will be properly monitored and evaluated for the benefit of future efforts. 
Careful habitat management increased this number to over 300 birds, but the single population remained vulnerable to local catastrophic events.
A successful translocation exercise also appears to have been achieved with red howler monkeys in French Guiana.
A howler population was translocated from a site due to be flooded for hydroelectric power generation.
Although the troops appeared to undergo initial problems, causing them to split up, all the tracked females settled into normal behavioral patterns. 
Reviewing translocation of amphibians and reptiles, researchers C.Kenneth Dodd and Richard A. Siegel concluded that most projects have not demonstrated success as conservation techniques and should not be advocated as though they were acceptable management and mitigation practices.
The development of modern architecture might in large part be seen as an adaptation of this sort of functional building and its pervasive application for daily use.
For example, glass could be used to open up walls and eliminate their stone and brick masonry because large spaces could now be spanned with steel beams.
This often led to effects that looked odd from a traditional standpoint but that became hallmarks of modern architecture for precisely this reason.
For example, in traditional architecture, stone or brick walls served a structural role, but in a steel-beam building the walls were essentially hung from the internal skeleton of steel beams, which meant that walls and corners no longer needed to be solid but could be opened up in unexpected ways.
Similarly, steel beams could be used to construct balconies that projected out from the building without any support beneath them.
These dramatic balconies quickly became a signature of modern architects such as Frank Lloyd Wright.
But to create usable high-rise buildings, a number of technical challenges needed to be solved.
One problem was getting people to the upper floors, since after five or six stories it becomes exhausting to climb stairs.
Updated and electrified versions of the freight elevator that had been introduced by Elisha Graves Otis in 1853 (several decades before skyscraper construction) solved this problem.
The metal supporting buildings became soft when exposed to fire and collapsed relatively quickly.
The terra-cotta tiles were used both to encase the supporting members and as flooring.
A structure built with steel beams protected by terra-cotta tiles was still three times lighter than a comparably sized building that used masonry construction, so the weight of the tiles was not a problem.
Glass lenses in the microscope bend the light to magnify the image of the specimen and project the image into the viewer  s eye or onto photographic film.
For example, what looks to the unaided eye like a single star in the sky may be resolved as two stars with the help of a telescope.
From the year 1665, when English microscopist Robert Hooke discovered cells, until the middle of the twentieth century, biologists had only light microscopes for viewing cells.
Our knowledge of cell structure took a giant leap forward as biologists began using the electron microscope in the 1950s.
Instead of light, the electron microscope uses a beam of electrons and has a much higher resolving power than the light microscope.
It uses an electron beam to scan the surface of a cell or group of cells that have been coated with metal.
The metal stops the beam from going through the cells.
When the metal is hit by the beam, it emits electrons.
Specimens are cut into extremely thin sections, and the transmission electron microscope aims an electron beam through a section, just as a light microscope aims a beam of light through a specimen.
The electromagnets bend the electron beam to magnify and focus an image onto a viewing screen or photographic film.
One problem with electron microscopes is that they cannot be used to study living specimens because the specimen must be held in a vacuum chamber; that is, all the air and liquid must be removed.
For a biologist studying a living process, such as the whirling movement of a bacterium, a light microscope equipped with a video camera might be better than either a scanning electron microscope or a transmission electron microscope.
Although raccoons are native only to the Western Hemisphere, they have been successfully transplanted to other parts of the globe.
Following a decline to a relatively low population level in the 1930s,  raccoons began to prosper following their 1943 breeding season.
and high numbers have been sustained ever since.
the number of raccoons in North America was estimated to be at least 15 to 20 times the number that existed during the 1930s.
By now, their numbers have undoubtedly grown even more, as they have continued to expand into new habitats where they were once either rare or absent, such as sandy prairies, deserts, coastal marshes, and mountains.
Despite significant numbers being harvested and having suffered occasional declines, typically because of disease, the raccoon has consistently maintained high population levels.
First, their success has been partially attributed to the growth of cities, as they often thrive in suburban and even urban settings.
Furthermore, they have been deliberately introduced throughout the continent.
Within the United States, they are commonly taken from one area to another, both legally and illegally, to restock hunting areas and, presumably, because people simply want them to be part of their local fauna.
Their appearance and subsequent flourishing in Utah  s Great Salt Lake valley within the last 40 years appears to be from such an introduction.
As an example of the ease with which transplanted individuals can succeed, raccoons from Indiana (midwestern United States) have reportedly been able to flourish on islands off the coast of Alaska.
The raccoon  s expansion in various areas may also be due to the spread of agriculture.
Raccoons have been able to exploit crops, especially com but also cereal grains, which have become dependable food sources for them.
but this was about 50 years before raccoons started to spread out from their major habitat, the wooded river bottomlands.
They first became more widely distributed in the southern part of Manitoba, and by the 1940s were abundant throughout its southeastern portion.
The control of coyotes in the prairie region in the 1950s may have been a factor in raccoon expansion, If their numbers are sufficient coyotes might be able to suppress raccoon populations (though little direct evidence supports this notion).
By the 1960s the raccoon had become a major predator of the canvasback ducks nesting in southwestern Manitoba.
The extermination of the wolf from most of the contiguous United States may have been a critical factor in the raccoon's expansion and numerical increase.
Even though raccoons may not have been a significant part of their diet, wolves surely would have tried to prey on those exposed in relatively treeless areas.
Genes from virtually any organism, from viruses to humans, can now be inserted into plants, creating what are known as transgenic plants.
The most common transgenic crops are soybeans, corn, cotton, and canola.
On the positive side, proponents of transgenic crops argue that these crops are environmentally friendly because they allow farmers to use fewer and less noxious chemicals for crop production.
For example, a 21 percent reduction in the use of insecticide has been reported on Bt cotton (transgenic cotton that produces Bt toxin).
In addition, when glyphosate is used to control weeds, other, more persistent herbicides do not need to be applied.
On the negative side, opponents of transgenic crops suggest that there are many questions that need to be answered before transgenic crops are grown on a large scale.
One question deals with the effects that Bt plants have on nontarget organisms such as beneficial insects, worms, and birds that consume the genetically engineered crop.
Furthermore, the application of pesticides (the alternative to growing Bt plants) has been demonstrated to cause widespread harm to nontarget insects.
If the crop plants hybridize and reproduce with weedy relatives, then this herbicide-resistant gene will be perpetuated in the offspring.
This scenario is not likely to occur in many instances because there are no weedy relatives growing near the crop plant.
However, in some cases, it may become a serious problem.
This pesticide has been applied to plants for decades without the development of insect-resistant populations.
Farmers who use Bt transgenics may not feel that they need to follow through with integrated pest-management practices that use beneficial insects and timely applications of pesticides to control insect pests.
A more sustainable approach would be to plant nontransgenic corn, monitor the fields throughout the growing season, and then apply a pesticide only if and when needed.
The clay tablets usually were not fired; sun drying was probably reckoned enough to preserve the text for as long as it was being used.
Fortunately, however, many tablets survived because they were accidentally fired when the buildings they were stored in burned. 
Later, Babylonian scribes recorded the laws and kept other kinds of records.
As a result, the scribes were assigned their own goddess, Nisaba, later replaced by the god Nabu of Borsippa, whose symbol is neither weapon nor dragon but something far more fearsome, the cuneiform stick. 
One tablet records the speed of the Moon over 248 days; another documents an early sighting of Halley  s Cornet, form September 22 to September 28, 164 B.C.E.
More esoteric texts attempt to explain old Babylonian customs, such as the procedure for curing someone who is ill, which included rubbing tar and gypsum on the sick person  s door and drawing a design at the foot of the person  s bed.
What is clear from the vast body of texts (some 20,000 tablets were found in King Ashurbanipal  s library at Nineveh) is that scribes took pride in their writing and knowledge. 
In it, Gilgamesh, king and warrior, is crushed by the death of his best friend and so sets out on adventures that prefigure mythical heroes of ancient Greek legends such as Hercules.
Remarkably, versions of Gilgamesh span 1,500 years, between 2100 B.C.E and 600 B.C.E., making the story the epic of an entire civilization.
Egypt gave us the tradition of the scribe not just as educated person but as artist and calligrapher.
It still seems a lot to recall, but what was lost in efficiency was more than made up for in the beauty and richness of the texts.
Between 80 and 85 million years ago, Gondwanaland, a giant continent made up of what today is Africa, Antarctica, Australia, and South America, broke up, thus causing what is now New Zealand to become separated from the larger landmass.
When the Maori arrived in New Zealand, they encountered birds that had been evolving for 80 million years without the presence of mammalian predators.
The most striking of these animals must have been moa.
They are known from a diverse array of remains including eggshells, eggs, a few mummified carcasses, vast numbers of bones, and some older fossilized bone.
If so, these individuals would have been the last of their kind.
Climatic conditions in New Zealand appear to have been relatively stable over the period during which moa became extinct.
While there appears to have been extensive burning on the east side of New Zealand  s South Island, large forest tracts remained in the most southern part of the island.
Because major habitat destruction seems to have occurred after moa populations already were depleted, and because some habitat that could have sheltered moa populations remained, it would seem that other factors were also at work in the extinction of these birds.
For South Island, human predation appears to have been a significant factor in the depletion of the population of moa.
The possibility of analyzing ancient DNA to identify past diseases of extinct animals is being explored.
One factor is the direct effect of logging, which often turns a forest into something approximating a huge pile of kindling (wood for burning): the ground in a logged forest may remain covered with branches and treetops, left behind when the valuable trunks are carted away; a dense growth of new vegetation springs up, further increasing the forest  s fuel loads; and the trees logged and removed are of course the biggest and most fire-resistant individuals, leaving behind smaller and more flammable trees.
Another factor is that the United States Forest Service in the first decade of the 1900s adopted the policy of fire suppression (attempting to put out forest fires) for the obvious reason that it did not want valuable timber to go up in smoke, or people  s homes and lives to be threatened.
The Forest Service  s announced goal became   Put out every forest fire by 10:00 A.M on the morning after the day when it is first reported.
Firefighters became much more successful at achieving that goal after 1945, thanks to improved firefighting technology.
That happy situation began to change in the 1980s, due to the increasing frequency of large forest fires that were essentially impossible to extinguish unless rain and low winds combined to help.
People began to realize that the United States federal government  s fire-suppression policy was contributing to those big fires and that natural fires caused by lighting had previously played an important role in maintaining forest structure.
To make Montana  s low-altitude ponderosa pine forest as an example, historical records, plus counts of annual tree rings and datable fire scars on tree stumps, demonstrated that a ponderosa pine forest experiences a lightning-lit fire about once a decade under natural conditions (i.e.., before fire suppression began around 1910 and became effective after 1945).
However, loggers concentrated on removing those big, old, valuable, fire-resistant ponderosa pines, while fire suppression for decades let the understory fill up with Douglas fir saplings that would in turn become valuable when full-grown.
When a fire finally does start in a sapling-choked forest, whether due to lightning or human carelessness or (regrettably often) intentional arson, the dense, tall saplings young trees) may become a ladder that allows the fire to jump into the crowns of the trees.
The problems that were faced and solved in Athens were the sharing of political power between the established aristocracy and the emerging other classes, and the adjustment of aristocratic ways of life to the ways of life of the new polls.
Within this traditional framework the Athenians, between 600 B.C.
The first steps toward change were taken by Solon in 594 B.C., when he broke the aristocracy  s stranglehold on elected offices by establishing wear rather than birth as the basis of office holding, abolishing the economic obligations of ordinary Athenians to the aristocracy, and allowing the assembly (of which all citizens were equal members) to overrule the decisions of local courts in certain cases.
The Peisistratids, as the succession of tyrants were called (after the founder of the dynasty, Peisistratos), strengthened Athenian central administration at the expense of the aristocracy by appointing judges throughout the region, producing Athens' first national coinage, and adding and embellishing festivals that tended to focus attention on Athens rather than on local villages of the surrounding region.
Cleisthenes' principal contribution to the creation of democracy at Athens was to complete the long process of weakening family and dam structures, especially among the aristocrats, and to set in their place locality-based corporations called demes, which became the point of entry for all civic and most religious life in Athens.
Out of the demes were created 10 artificial tribes of roughly equal population.
From the demes, by either election or selection, came 500 members of a new council, 6,000 jurors for the courts,
This wide-scale participation by the citizenry in the government distinguished the democratic form of the Athenian polls from other, less liberal forms.
National politics rather than local or deme politics became the focal point.
At the same time, entry into national politics began at the deme level and gave local loyalty a new focus: Athens itself.
By any measure other than that of the aristocrats  who had been upstaged by the supposedly inferior "people," the Athenian democracy was a stunning success.
Never before, or since, have so many people been involved in the serious business of self-govemance.
This seems to be true for many different groups of animals and plants.
Although area may contribute to biodiversity, it is certainly not the whole story; otherwise, large landmasses would always be richer in species.
Productivity seems to be involved instead, though perhaps its influence is indirect.
There is also a large mass of material, developed below ground as root tissues, but this is less apparent Careful analysis of the aboveground material reveals that it is arranged in a series of layers, the precise number of layers varying with age and the nature of the forest The arrangement of the biological mass (biomass) of the vegetation into layered forms is termed its "structure" (as opposed to its "composition", which refers to the species of organisms forming the community).
Structure is essentially the architecture of vegetation, and as in the case of some tropical forests, it can be extremely complicated.
However, the idea that amphibians have no control whatsoever over their body temperature has been proven false because their body temperature does not always correspond to the surrounding temperature.
Recently it has been shown that some North American frog and toad speeds can survive up to five days with a body temperature of -6*0 with approximately one-third of their body fluids frozen.
The other tissues are protected because they contain the frost-protective agent  s glycerin or glucose.
The African savanna frog Hyperolius viridiflavus stores guanine crystals in its skin, which enable it to better reflect solar radiation, thus providing protection against overheating.
However, behavior is by far the most important factor in thermoregulation.
The principal elements in behavioral thermoregulation are basking (heliothermy), heat exchange with substrates such as rock or earth (thigmothermy)  and diurnal and annual avoidance behaviors, which include moving to shelter during the day for cooling and hibernating or estivating (reducing activity during cold or hot weather, respectively).
Hefiothermy is especially common among frogs and toads: it allows them to increase their body temperature by more than 10*C. The Andean toad Bufo spinulosus exposes itself immediately after sunrise on moist ground and attains its preferred body temperature by this means, long before either ground or air is correspondingly warmed.
Thigmothermy is a behavior present in most amphibians, although pressing against the ground serves a dual purpose: heat absorption by conductivity and water absorption through the skin.
Avoidance behavior occurs whenever physiological and morphological adaptations are insufficient to maintain body temperature within the vital range.
Nocturnal activity in amphibians with low tolerance for high ambient temperatures is a typical thermoregulatory behavior of avoidance.
Seasonal avoidance behavior is extremely important in many amphibians.
In amphibians hibernation occurs in mud or deep holes away from frost.
North of the Pyrenees Mountains, the natterjack toad offers a good example of hibernation, passing the winter dug deep into sandy ground.
Amphibians are therefore hardly at the mercy of ambient temperatures, since by means of the mechanisms described above they are more than able to exercise some control over their body temperature.
The largest of these paintings may be up to 5.5 meters in diameter and cover the entire floor of a room.
The twenty-four known Navajo chants can be represented by up to 500 sand paintings.
The purpose and meaning of the sand paintings can be explained by examining one of the most basic ideals of Navajo society, embodied in their word hozho (beauty or harmony, goodness, and happiness).
When the world, which was created in beauty, becomes ugly and disorderly, the Navajo gather to perform rituals with songs and make sand paintings to restore beauty and harmony to the world.
Thus, the restoration of harmony through a ceremony can be part of a curing process.
By re-creating these arts, which reflect the original beauty of creation, the Navajo bring beauty to the present world.
As relative newcomers to the Southwest, a place where their climate, neighbors, and rulers could be equally inhospitable, the Navajo created these art forms to affect the world around them, not just through the recounting of the actions symbolized, but through the beauty and harmony of the artworks themselves.
The paintings generally illustrate ideas and events from the life of a mythical hero, who, after being healed by the gods, gave gifts of songs and paintings.
Working on their looms, Navajo weavers create images through which they experience harmony with nature it is their means of creating beauty and thereby contributing to the beauty, harmony, and healing of the world.
Thus, weaving is a way of seeing the world and being part of it.
These gases should therefore have been important parts of the original atmospheres of both Venus and Earth.
Venus and Earth are similar in size and mass, so Venusian volcanoes may well have outgassed as much water vapor as on Earth, and both planets would have had about the same number of comets strike their surfaces.
Studies of how stars evolve suggest that the early Sun was only about 70 percent as luminous as it is now, so the temperature in Venus   early atmosphere must have been quite a bit lower.
Thus water vapor would have been able to liquefy and form oceans on Venus.
But if water vapor and carbon dioxide were once so common in the atmospheres of both Earth and Venus, what became of Earth  s carbon dioxide?
The answer to the first question is that carbon dioxide is still found in abundance on Earth, but now, instead of being in the form of atmospheric carbon dioxide, it is either dissolved in the oceans or chemically bound into carbonate rocks, such as the limestone and marble that formed in the oceans.
If Earth became as hot as Venus, much of its carbon dioxide would be boiled out of the oceans and baked out of the crust Our planet would soon develop a thick, oppressive carbon dioxide atmosphere much like that of Venus.
But being closer to the Sun than Earth is, enough of the liquid water on Venus would have vaporized to create a thick cover of water vapor clouds.
Although the temperature would have climbed above 100   C, the boiling point of water at sea level on Earth, the added atmospheric pressure from water vapor would have kept the water in Venus' oceans in the liquid state.
But as the Sun  s energy output slowly increased over time, the temperature at the surface would eventually have risen above 374  C. Above this temperature, no matter what the atmospheric pressure, Venus   oceans would have begun to evaporate, and the added water vapor in the atmosphere would have increased the greenhouse effect.
With no oceans to dissolve it, outgassed carbon dioxide began to accumulate in the atmosphere, intensifying the greenhouse effect even more.
Temperatures eventually became high enough to "bake out" any carbon dioxide that was trapped in carbonate rocks.
This liberated carbon dioxide formed the thick atmosphere of present-day Venus.
Bartering was a basic trade mechanism for many thousands of years; often sporadic and usually based on notions of reciprocity, it involved the mutual exchange of commodities or objects between individuals or groups.
In the 1970s, a number of archaeologists gave trade a primary role in the rise of ancient states.
As agricultural economies became more diversified and local food supplies could be purchased both locally and over longer distances, a far-reaching economic interdependence resulted.
All these could be obtained from the nearby highlands, from the Valley of Mexico, and from other regions, if the necessary trading networks came into being.
Such connections, and the trading expeditions to maintain them, could not be organized by individual villages.
In time, this organization became a state, and knowledge of its functioning was exportable, as were pottery, tropical bird feathers, specialized stone materials, and other local commodities.
Rathje s hypothesis probably explains part of the complex process of Mayan state formation, but it suffers from the objection that suitable alternative raw materials can be found in the lowlands.
It could be, too, that warfare became a competitive response to population growth and to the increasing scarcity of prime agricultural land, and that it played an important role in the emergence of the Mayan states.
Now that we know much more about ancient exchange and commerce, we know that, because no one aspect of trade was an overriding cause of cultural change or evolution in commercial practices, trade can never be looked on as a unifying factor or as a primary agent of ancient civilization.
There may or may not have been a market organization.
In the formation of many species, the initial isolation of a population seems to have been a geographic barrier.
A mountain range may emerge and gradually split a population of organisms that can inhabit only lowland lakes; certain fish populations might become isolated in this way.
How formidable must a geographic barrier be to keep populations apart?
The passage of wind-blown tree pollen is also not hindered by such barriers, and the seeds of many plants may be carried back and forth on animals.
Geographic isolation creates opportunities for new species to develop, but it does not necessarily lead to new species because speciation occurs only when the gene pool undergoes enough changes to establish reproductive barriers between the isolated population and its parent population.
Organisms can also be carried to islands by other organisms, such as sea birds that travel long distances with seeds clinging to their feathers.
These birds have many similarities but differ in their feeding habits and their beak type, which is correlated with what they eat.
Completely isolated on the island after migrating from the mainland, the founder population may have undergone significant changes in its gene pool and become a new species.
Later, a few individuals of this new species may have been blown by storms to a neighboring island Isolated on this second island, the second founder population could have evolved into a second new species, which could later recolonize the island from which its founding population emigrated.
Dinosaurs rapidly became extinct about 65 million years ago as part of a mass extinction known as the K-T event, because it is associated with a geological signature known as the K-T boundary, usually a thin band of sedimentation found in various parts of the world (K is the traditional abbreviation for the Cretaceous, derived from the German name Kreideieit).
Many explanations have been proposed for why dinosaurs became extinct.
For example, some have blamed dinosaur extinction on the development of flowering plants, which were supposedly more difficult to digest and could have caused constipation or indigestionexcept that flowering plants first evolved in the Early Cretaceous, about 60 million years before the dinosaurs died out.
Others have blamed extinction on competition from the mammals, which allegedly ate all the dinosaur eggs-except that mammals and dinosaurs appeared at the same time in the Late Triassic, about 190 million years ago, and there is no reason to believe that mammals suddenly acquired a taste for dinosaur eggs after 120 million years of coexistence.
Some explanations (such as the one stating that dinosaurs all died of diseases) fail because there is no way to scientifically test them, and they cannot move beyond the realm of speculation and guesswork.
The K-T event marked the end of the marine reptiles, such as the mosasaurs and the plesiosaurs, which were the largest creatures that had ever lived in the seas and which ruled the seas long before whales evolved.
So any event that can explain the destruction of the base of the food chain (plankton In the ocean, plants on land) can better explain what happened to organisms at the top of the food chain, such as the dinosaurs.
Estimated to be ten to fifteen kilometers in diameter, this bolide (either a comet or an asteroid) was traveling at cosmic speeds of 20-70 kilometers per second, or 45,000-156,000 miles per hour.
The impact displaced huge volumes of seawater, causing much flood damage in the Caribbean.
Its mass is only one-third as great, which means its density must be only one-third as great as well.
This tells us that Callisto has far less of the rocky metallic materials found in the inner planets and must instead be an icy body through much of its interior.
This fact surprised scientists, who expected that all the big icy moons would be differentiated It is much easier for an icy body to differentiate than for a rocky one, since the melting temperature of ice is so low.
Yet Callisto seems to have frozen solid before the process of differentiation was complete.
In thinking of ice so far from the Sun, it is important not to judge its behavior from that of the much warmer ice we know on Earth; at the temperatures of the outer solar system, ice on the surface is nearly as hard as rock, and behaves similarly.
About one-quarter of its surface seems to be as old and heavily cratered; the rest formed more recently, as we can tell by the sparse covering of impact craters as well as the relative freshness of the craters.
Much of its surface may be as young as half a billion years.
Possibly the small difference in size and internal heating between the two led to this divergence in their evolution.
Greek became the great international language.
Towns and cities were established not only as garrisons (military posts) but as centers for the diffusion of Greek language, literature, and thought, particularly through libraries, as at Antioch (in modern Turkey) and the most famous of all, at Alexandria in Egypt, which would be the finest in the world for the next thousand years.
Most city-states had been quite small in terms of citizenry, and this was considered to be a good thing.
The focus of life was the agora, the open marketplace where assemblies could be held and where issues of the day, as well as more fundamental topics such as the purpose of government or the relationship between law and freedom, could be discussed and decisions made by individuals in person.
felt that the ideal city-state should have about 5,000 citizens, because to the Greeks it was important that everyone in the community should know each other.
In decision making, the whole body of citizens together would have the necessary knowledge in order generally to reach the right decision, even though the individual might not be particularly qualified to decide.
), who lived at a time when the city-state system was declining, believed that a political entity of 100,000 simply would not be able to govern itself.
But with the development of trade and commerce in Alexander  s empire came the growth of cities; it was no longer possible to be a jack-of-all-trades.
There were getting to be too many persons to know, an easily observable community of interests was being replaced by a multiplicity of interests.
Its gods  such as Zeus, father of the gods, and his wife Hera  were thought of very much as being like human beings but with superhuman abilities.
Their worship was linked to the rituals connected with one  s progress through life  birth, marriage, and death   and with invoking protection against danger, making prophecies, and promoting healing, rather than to any code of behavior.
Even before Alexander  s time, a life spent in the service of their city-state no longer seemed ideal to Greeks The Athenian philosopher Socrates (470-399 B.C.)
was the first person in Greece to propose a morality based on individual conscience rather than the demands of the state, and for this he was accused of not believing in the city  s gods and so corrupting the youth, and he was condemned to death.
Sampling on the continental shelves and along the base of the continental slopes has shown that fine muds beneath the seafloor contain up to 8 percent organic matter.
Two additional kinds of evidence support the hypothesis that petroleum is a product of the decomposition of organic matter: oil possesses optical properties known only in hydrocarbons derived from organic matter, and oil contains nitrogen and certain compounds believed to originate only in living matter.
It is now well established that petroleum migrates through aquifers and can become trapped in reservoirs.
When oil and gas are squeezed out of the shale in which they originated and enter a body of sandstone or limestone somewhere above, they migrate readily because sandstones (consisting of quartz grains) and limestones (consisting of carbonate minerals) are much more permeable than any shale.
The force of molecular attraction between oil and quartz or carbonate minerals is weaker than that between water and quartz or carbonate minerals.
Hence, because oil and water do not mix, water remains fastened to the quartz or carbonate grains, while oil occupies the central parts of the larger openings in the porous sandstone or limestone.
In this way, oil becomes segregated from the water; when it encounters a trap, it can form a pool.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the highest ratio of oil and gas pools to volume of sediment is found in rock no older than 2.5 million years  young enough so that little of the petroleum has leaked away  and that nearly 60 percent of all oil and gas discovered so far has been found in strata that formed in the last 65 million years This does not mean that older rocks produced less petroleum; it simply means that oil in older rocks has had a longer time in which to leak away.
Many billions of barrels of oil have already been pumped out of the ground.
A lot of additional oil has been located by drilling but is still waiting to be pumped out Possibly a great deal more oil remains to be found by drilling.
Unlike coal, the volume of which can be accurately estimated, the volume of undiscovered oil can only be guessed at.
Knowing how much oil has been found in an intensively drilled area, such as eastern Texas, experts make estimates of probable volumes in other regions where rock types and structures are similar to those in eastern Texas.
Using this approach and considering all the sedimentary basins of the world, experts estimate that somewhere between 1,500 and 3,000 billion barrels of oil will eventually be discovered.
Every year during the months of December and January, a weak, warm countercurrent replaces the normally cold coastal waters.
Without the upwelling of nutrients from below to feed the fish, fishing comes to a standstill.
The residents of the region have given this phenomenon the name of El  Nifio  ,which is Spanish for "the child," because it occurs at about the time of the celebration of birth of the Christ child.
Over the last few decades, the term El  Nifio has come to be used to describe these exceptionally strong episodes and not the annual event.
During the past 60 years, at least ten El Nifios have been observed Not only do El Niftos affect the temperature of the equatorial Pacific, but the strongest of them impact global weather.
Over 60 years ago, Sir Gilbert Walker, a British scientist, discovered a connection between surface pressure readings at weather stations on the eastern and western sides of the Pacific.
It was later realized that there is a close link between El Nino and the Southern Oscillation.
In fact, the link between the two is so great that they are often referred to jointly as ENSO (El Nino-Southern Oscillation).
However, in other years the Southern Oscillation, for unknown reasons, swings in the opposite direction, dramatically changing the usual conditions described above, with pressure increasing in the western.
The eastward shift signals the beginning of an El  Nifio.
It would seem that they are becoming more frequent.
Even more alarming is the fact that they appear to be getting stronger.
One of the most significant evolutionary events that occurred on Earth was the transition of water-dwelling fish to terrestrial tetrapods (four-limbed organisms with backbones).
One of the groups whose fossils are especially common in rocks deposited in fresh water is the lobe-finned fish.
The freshwater Devonian lobe-finned fish rhipidistian crossopterygian is of particular interest to biologists studying tetrapod evolution.
If there were periods of drought, any adaptations allowing the fish to survive the dry conditions would have been advantageous.
These differences suggest a sadlike cavity below the front end of the gut that can only be interpreted as a lung.
Gills were undoubtedly the main source of oxygen for these fish, but the lungs served as an auxiliary breathing device for gulping air when the water became oxygen depleted, such as during extended periods of drought.
A second adaptation of these fish was in the structure of the lobe fins.
They could have been used as feeble locomotor devices on land, perhaps good enough to allow a fish to flop its way from one pool of water that was almost dry to an adjacent pond that had enough water and oxygen for survival.
The bones of the fins of a Devonian rhipidistian exactly match in number and position the limb bones of the earliest known tetrapods, the amphibians.
It should be emphasized that the evolution of lungs and limbs was in no sense an anticipation of future life on land.
These adaptations developed because they helped fish to survive in their existing aquatic environment.
What ecological pressures might have caused fishes to gradually abandon their watery habitat and become increasingly land-dwelling creatures?
Changes in climate during the Devonian may have had something to do with this if freshwater areas became progressively more restricted.
Another impetus may have been new sources of food.
In addition, plants had emerged into terrestrial habitats in areas near streams and ponds, and crabs and other arthropods were also members of this earliest terrestrial community.
Thus, by the Devonian the land habitat marginal to freshwater was probably a rich source of protein that could be exploited by an animal that could easily climb out of water.
Aristotle also experimented with it in the fourth century B.C., and Leonardo da Vinci described it in his notebooks in 1490.
In 1558 Giovanni Battista Della Porta wrote in his twenty-volume work Magia naturalis (meaning "natural magic") instructions for adding a convex lens to improve the quality of the image thrown against a canvas or panel in the darkened area where its outlines could be traced.
For the artist, this technique allows forms and linear perspective to be drawn precisely as they would be seen from a single viewpoint.
One of the artists whose paintings are being analyzed from this point of view is the great Dutch master, Jan Vermeer, who lived from 1632 to 1675 during the flowering of art and science in the Netherlands, including the science of optics.
The room shown in it closely resembles the room in other Vermeer paintings, with lighting coming from a window on the left, the same roof beams, and similar floor tiles, suggesting that the room was fitted with a camera obscura on the side in the foreground.
When one of Vermeer  s paintings was X-rayed, it did not have any preliminary sketches on the canvas beneath the paint, but rather the complete image drawn in black and white without any trial sketches.
Vermeer did not have any students, did not keep any records, and did not encourage anyone to visit his studio, facts that can be interpreted as protecting his secret use of a camera obscura.
He includes in this group Caravaggio, Hans Holbein, Leonardo da Vinci, Diego Velazquez, Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres, Agnolo Bronzino, and Jan van Eyck.
From an artist  s point of view, Hockney observed that a camera obscura compresses the complicated forms of a three-dimensional scene into two-dimensional shapes that can easily be traced and also increases the contrast between light and dark, leading to the chiaroscuro effect seen in many of these paintings.
Seagrass beds are strongly influenced by several physical factors.
The seagrass beds, in turn, dampen wave action, particularly if the blades reach the water surface.
This damping effect can be significant to the point where just one meter into a seagrass bed the wave motion can be reduced to zero.
Currents are also slowed as they move into the bed.
The slowing of wave action and currents means that seagrass beds tend to accumulate sediment.
However, this is not universal and depends on the currents under which the bed exists.
Seagrass beds under the influence of strong currents tend to have many of the lighter particles, including seagrass debris, moved out, whereas beds in weak current areas accumulate lighter detrital material.
It is interesting that temperate seagrass beds accumulate sediments from sources outside the beds, whereas tropical seagrass beds derive most of their sediments from within.
The high rate of metabolism (the processing of energy for survival) of the microorganisms in the sediments causes sediments to be anaerobic (without oxygen) below the first few millimeters.
According to ecologist J. W. Kenworthy, anaerobic processes of the microorganisms in the sediment are an important mechanism for regenerating and recycling nutrients and carbon, ensuring the high rates of productivity  that is, the amount of organic material produced-that are measured in those beds.
They are, therefore, capable of recycling nutrients into the ecosystem that would otherwise be trapped in the bottom and rendered unavailable.
Other physical factors that have an effect on seagrass beds include light, temperature, and desiccation (drying out).
Although marine botanist W. A. Setchell suggested early on that temperature was critical to the growth and reproduction of eelgrass, it has since been shown that this particularly widespread seagrass grows and reproduces at temperatures between 2 and 4 degrees Celsius in the Arctic and at temperatures up to 28 degrees Celsius on the northeastern coast of the United States.
Researchers Robertson and Mann note that when the ice begins to break up, the wind and tides may move the ice around, scouring the bottom and uprooting the eelgrass.
Seagrass beds also decline if they are subjected to too much exposure to the air.
Most seagrass beds seem tolerant of considerable changes in salinity (salt levels) and can be found in brackish (somewhat salty) waters as well as in full- strength seawater.
During the peak of the last ice age, northeast Asia (Siberia) and Alaska were connected by a broad land mass called the Bering Land Bridge.
This land bridge existed because so much of Earth  s water was frozen in the great ice sheets that sea levels were over 100 meters lower than they are today.
Between 25,000 and 10,000 years ago, Siberia, the Bering Land Bndge, and Alaska shared many environmental characteristics.
The recognition that many aspects of the modem flora and fauna were present on both sides of the Bering Sea as remnants of the ice-age landscape led to this region being named Beringia.
These grazers supported in turn a number of impressive carnivores, including the giant short-faced bear, the saber-tooth cat, and a large species of lion.
The presence of mammal species that require grassland vegetation has led Arctic biologist Dale Guthrie to argue that while cold and dry, there must have been broad areas of dense vegetation to support herds of mammoth, horse, and bison.
Further, nearly all of the ice-age fauna had teeth that indicate an adaptation to grasses and sedges; they could not have been supported by a modern flora of mosses and lichens.
Guthrie has also demonstrated that the landscape must have been subject to intense and continuous winds, especially in winter.
They need landscapes with strong winds that remove the winter snows, exposing the dry grasses beneath.
He found that the amount of pollen recovered in these sediments is so low that the Beringian landscape during the peak of the last glaciation was more likely to have been what he termed a "polar desert," with little or only sparse vegetation, in no way was it possible that this region could have supported large herds of mammals and thus, human hunters.
The argument seemed to be at a standstill until a number of recent studies resulted in a spectacular suite of new finds.
Wind pollination is often seen as being primitive and wasteful in costly pollen and yet it is surprisingly common, especially in higher latitudes.
Wind is very good at moving pollen a long way; pollen can be blown for hundreds of kilometers, and only birds can get pollen anywhere near as far.
If a number of people in the village were throwing letters off roofs, your friend would be bound to get one.
By contrast, in the tropics, where each tree species has few, widely scattered individuals, the chance of wind blowing pollen to another individual is sufficiently slim that animals are a safer bet as transporters of pollen.
Even tall trees in the tropics are usually not wind pollinated despite being in windy conditions.
These are at best a waste and at worst an impediment to the transfer of pollen in the air The result is insignificant-looking flowers and catkins (dense cylindrical clusters of small, petalless flowers).
Pollen produced higher in the top branches is likely to go farther: it is windier (and gustier) and the pollen can be blown farther before hitting the ground.
Moreover, dangling catkins like hazel hold the pollen in until the wind is strong enough to bend them, ensuring that pollen is only shed into the air when the wind is blowing hard.
Pollen is shed primarily when the air is dry to prevent too much sticking to wet surfaces or being knocked out of the air by rain.
Despite these adaptations, much of the pollen fails to leave the top branches, and only between 0.5 percent and 40 percent gets more than 100 meters away from the parent.
Once the pollen has been snatched by the wind, the fate of the pollen is obviously up to the vagaries of the wind, but not everything is left to chance.
Small grains may be blown farther but they are also more prone to be whisked past the waiting stigma because smaller particles tend to stay trapped in the fast-moving air that flows around the stigma.
In contrast, the food levels in the deeper layers of the ocean are greatly reduced, and the energy constraints on the animals are much more severe To survive at those levels, animals must maximize their energy input, finding and eating whatever potential food source may be present.
In the near-surface layers, there are many large, fast carnivores as well as an immense variety of planktonic animals, which feed on plankton (small, free-floating plants or animals) by filtering them from currents of water that pass through a specialized anatomical structure These filter-feeders thrive in the well-illuminated surface waters because oceans have so many very small organisms, from bacteria to large algae to larval crustaceans.
Even fishes can become successful filter-feeders in some circumstances Although the vast majority of marine fishes are carnivores, in near-surface regions of high productivity the concentrations of larger phytoplankton (the plant component of plankton) are sufficient to support huge populations of filter-feeding sardines and anchovies.
Sardines and anchovies provide the basis for huge commercial fisheries as well as a food resource for large numbers of local carnivores, particularly seabirds.
Filtering seawater for its particulate nutritional content can be an energetically demanding method of feeding, particularly when the current of water to be filtered has to be generated by the organism itself, as is the case for all planktonic animals.
Another solution for such animals is to forage in particular layers of water where the particles may be more concentrated.
Many of the groups of animals that typify the filter-feeding lifestyle in shallow water have deep-sea representatives that have become predatory.
Alternative methods of active or passive prey capture have been evolved, including trapping and seizing prey, entangling prey, and sticky tentacles.
Among the fishes there is a tendency for the teeth and jaws to become appreciably enlarged.
In such creatures, not only are the teeth hugely enlarged and/or the jaws elongated but the size of the mouth opening may be greatly increased by making the jaw articulations so flexible that they can be effectively dislocated.
These examples, in the form of inscribed clay tablets that date to shortly before 3000 B.C.E., have been discovered among the archaeological remains of the Sumerians, a gifted people settled in southern Mesopotamia.
The Egyptians were not far behind in developing writing, but we cannot follow the history of their writing in detail because they used a perishable writing material.
Mesopotamia  s rivers boasted no such useful reeds, but its land did provide good clay, and as a consequence the clay tablet became the standard material.
Clay, moreover, is cheap, and forming it into tablets is easy, factors that helped the clay tablet become the preferred writing material not only throughout Mesopotamia but far outside it as well, in Syria, Asia Minor, Persia, and even for a while in Crete and Greece.
In the Near East they remained in use for more than two and a half millennia, and in certain areas they lasted down to the beginning of the common era until finally yielding, once and for all, to more convenient alternatives.
This script consists of simple shapes, basically just wedge shapes and lines that could easily be incised in soft clay with a reed or wooden stylus; scholars have dubbed it cuneiform from the wedge-shaped marks (cunei in Latin) that are its hallmark Although the ingredients are merely wedges and lines, there are hundreds of combinations of these basic forms that stand for different sounds or words.
Learning these complex signs required long training and much practice; inevitably, literacy was largely limited to a small professional class, the scribes.
The literature of the Sumerians was treasured throughout the Near East, and long after Sumerian ceased to be spoken, the Babylonians and Assyrians and others kept it alive as a literary language, the way Europeans kept Latin alive after the fall of Rome.
For the scribes of these non-Sumerian languages, training was doubly demanding since they had to know the values of the various cuneiform signs for Sumerian as well as for their own language.
The contents of the earliest clay tablets are simple notations of numbers of commodities  animals, jars, baskets, etc.
These records of factual matters were kept in storage to be available for reference-they were, in effect, files, or, to use the term preferred by specialists in the ancient Near East, archives.
Regular courier service among commercial cities began.
Commercial accounting became more complex when firms had to deal with shareholders, manufacturers, customers, branch offices, employees, and competing firms.
Tolls on roads became high enough to finance what has been called a road revolution, involving new surfaces and bridges, new passes through the Alps, and new inns and hospices for travelers.
Across regular, well- defined trade routes along the Baltic and North seas, the ships of league cities carried furs, wax, copper, fish, grain, timber, and wine.
They exercised an influence far in excess of their numbers.
Wealth could be taxed, and through taxation, kings could create strong and centralized states.
In the years to come, alliances with the middle classes were to enable kings to weaken aristocratic interests and build the states that came to be called modern.
The slow but steady transformation of European society from almost completely rural and isolated to relatively more urban constituted the greatest effect of the commercial revolution that began in the eleventh century.
The nobility and churchmen determined the predominant social attitudes, values, and patterns of thought and behavior.
Conservation biologists have long been concerned that species extinction could have significant consequences for the stability of entire ecosystems  groups of interacting organisms and the physical environment that they inhabit.
An ecosystem could survive the loss of some species, but if enough species were lost, the ecosystem would be severely degraded.
A good illustration of this occurred after sea otters were eliminated from some Pacific kelp (seaweed) bed ecosystems: the kelp beds were practically obliterated too because in the absence of sea otter predation, sea urchin populations exploded and consumed most of the kelp and other macroalgae.
It is usually claimed that species-rich ecosystems tend to be more stable than species-poor ecosystems.
Three mechanisms by which higher diversity increases ecosystem stability have been proposed.
First, if there are more species in an ecosystem, then its food web will be more complex, with greater redundancy among species in terms of their nutritional roles.
Second, diverse ecosystems may be less likely to be invaded by new species, notably exotics (foreign species living outside their native range), that would disrupt the ecosystem  s structure and function.
Third, in a species-rich ecosystem, diseases may spread more slowly because most species will be relatively less abundant, thus increasing the average distance between individuals of the same species and hampering disease transmission among individuals.
Scientific evidence to illuminate these ideas has been slow in coming, and many shadows remain.
One of the first studies to provide data supporting a relationship between diversity and stability examined how grassland plants responded to a drought.
In an experiment that began in 1982, they compared these values with the number of plant species in each plot and discovered that the plots with a greater number of plant species experienced a less dramatic reduction in biomass.
Apparently, species-rich plots were likely to contain some drought-resistant plant species that grew better in drought years, compensating for the poor growth of less-tolerant species.
To put this result in more general terms, a species-rich ecosystem may be more stable because it is more likely to have species with a wide array of responses to variable conditions such as droughts.
Both of these, variability in responses and functional redundancy, could be thought of as insurance against disturbances.
The Minnesota grassland research has been widely accepted as strong evidence for the diversity- stability theory; however, its findings have been questioned, and similar studies on other ecosystems have not always found a positive relationship between diversity and stability.
We should not underestimate the social status associated with such mundane possessions which had not previously been available.
Even if those from the traditional families looked down on him, they would have been unable to dismiss him as uncultured.
Such examples established a standard to be copied.
One result was an influx of craft worker, particularly those skilled in artistic media like stone-carving which had not existed before the conquest.
The magnificent temple built beside the sacred spring at Bath was constructed only about twenty years after the conquest.
In the absence of a tradition of Classical stone-carving and building, the desire to develop Roman amenities would have been difficult to fulfill.
Local workshops did develop and stylistically similar groups of sculpture show how skills in this new medium became widerspread.
Pre-Roman Britain was highly localized, with people rarely traveling beyond their own region.
The sheer size of space enclosed within buildings like the basilica of London must have been astonishing.
Ants and the other social members of their order, certain bees and wasps, have complete metarnorphosis in four life stages; egg, larva, pupa, and adult.
The worker and soldier castes of social ants, bees, and wasps consist of only females, all daughters of a single queen that mated soon after she matured and thereafter never mated again.
Since termites are small and soft-bodied, they easily become desiccated and must live in moist places with a high relative humidity.
They do best when the relative humidity in their nest is above 96 percent and the temperature is fairly high, an optimum of about 79  F for temperate zone species and about 86  F for tropical species.
When it is cold in winter, subterranean termites move to burrows below the frost line. 
Renowned Swiss entomologist Martin Luscher described the mounds of this fungus-growing species as being as much as 16 feet tall, 16 feet in diameter at their base, and with a cement-like wall of soil mixed with termite saliva that is from 16 to 23 inches thick.
The interior consists of a large central core in which the fungus is grown, below it is   cellar   of empty space, above it is an   attic   of empty space, and within the ridges on the outer wall of the nest, there are many small tunnels that connect the cellar and the attic.
Gases, mainly oxygen coming in and carbon dioxide going out, easily diffuse into or out of the ridges, since their walls are thin and their surface area is large because they protrude far our from the wall of the mound.
Darwin s theory was that the succession from one coral reef type to another could be achieved by the upward growth of coral from a sinking platform, and that there would be a progression from a fringing reef, through the barrier reef stage until, with the disappearance through subsidence (sinking) of the central island, only a reef-enclosed lagoon or atoll would survive.
The drill holes passed through more than a thousand meters of coral before reaching the rock substratum of the ocean floor, and indicated that the coral had been growing upward for tens of millions of years as Earth's crust subsided at a rate of between 15 and 51 meters per million years.
There are some submarine islands called guyots and seamounts, in which subsidence associated with sea-floor spreading has been too speedy for coral growth to keep up.
Indeed, they have been called the marine version of the tropical rain forest, rivaling their terrestrial counterparts in both richness of species and biological productivity.
They also have significance because they provide coastal protection, opportunities for recreation, and are potential sources of substances like medicinal drugs.
Increases in population have usually been accompanied (indeed facilitated) by an increase in trade.
The transition between the Ming and Qing dynasties (the seventeenth century) may have seen a decline, but from 1741 to 1851 the annual figures rose steadily and spectacularly, perhaps beginning with 143 million and ending with 432 million.
If, with greater caution, we assume lower totals in the early eighteenth century and only 400 million in 1850, we still face a startling fact: something like a doubling of the vast Chinese population in the century before Western contact, foreign trade, and industrialization could have had much effect.
Control of disease, like the checking of smallpox by variolation may have been important.
Assuming that China  s population in 1400 was about 80 million, the economist Dwight Perkins concludes that its growth to 700 million or more in the 1960s was made possible by a steady increase in the grain supply, which evidently grew five or six times between 1400 and 1800 and rose another 50 percent between 1800 and 1965.
Corn, for instance, can be grown on the dry soil and marginal hill land of North China, where it is used for food, fuel, and fodder and provides something like one-seventh of the food energy available in the area.
The sweet potato, growing in sandy soil and providing more food energy per unit of land than other crops, became the main food of the poor in much of the South China rice area.
Traditionally, this information has been derived from direct evidence, such as stomach contents, and indirect evidence, such as establishing a correlation between particular body characteristics and diets of living animals and then inferring habits for dinosaurs. 
Unlike the meat-slicing and stabbing teeth of carnivores, the teeth of these animals grind and shred plant material before digestion.
The jaw joint of carnivores such as dogs and cats has the mechanical advantage of being at the same level as the tooth row, allowing the jaws to close with tremendous speed and forcing the upper teeth to occlude against the lower teeth with great precision.
The duck-billed dinosaurs known as hadrosaurs are a good example of a group whose jaw joint is below the level of the tooth row, which probably helped them grind up tough, fibrous vegetation. 
Paleontologists would like to be much more specific about a dinosaur  s diet than simply differentiating carnivore from herbivore.
Further research indicated that the small dinosaurs were too large and too well developed to be prehatchling young.
In a few rare cases, most of them   mummies   (unusually well preserved specimens), fossilized plant remains have been found inside the body cavity of hadrosaurs.
The best known of these cases is the second Edmontosaurus mummy collected by the Sternbergs.
In the chest cavity of this specimen, which is housed in the Senckenberg Museum in Germany, are the fossil remains of conifer needles, twigs, seeds, and fruits.
Similar finds in Corythosaurus specimens from Alberta, Canada, have also been reported, indicating that at least two kinds of Late Cretaceous hadrosaurs fed on the sorts of tress that are common in today  s boreal woodlands.
Study of coprolites has indicated that the diets of some herbivorous dinosaurs were relatively diverse, while other dinosaurs appear to have been specialists, feeding on particular types of plants.
For more than a hundred years, it has been known that cities are generally warmer than surrounding rural areas.
However, before we look at its influence, let  s see how the heat island actually forms.
In cities, where less vegetation and exposed soil exist, the majority of the Sun  s energy is absorbed by urban structures and asphalt.
Depending on the location, time of year, and time of day, any or all of the following differences between cities and their surroundings can be important: albedo (reflectivity of the surface), surface roughness, emissions of heat, emissions of moisture, and emissions of particles that affect net radiation and the growth of cloud droplets.
This warming, therefore, must be accounted for in interpreting climate change over the past century.
Studies suggest that precipitation may be greater in cities than in the surrounding countryside; this phenomenon may be due in part to the increased roughness of city terrain, brought on by large structures that cause surface air to slow and gradually converge.
This piling up of air over the city then slowly rises, much like toothpaste does when its tube is squeezed.
This process helps explain why both tend to be more frequent over cities.
Information on past climates is primary of relevance to archaeology because of what it tells us about the effects on the land and on the resources that people needed to survive.
These have changed constantly through time, even in relatively recent periods, as can be seen from the Neolithic stone circle of Er Lannic, in Brittany, France (once inland but now half submerged on an island) or medieval villages in east Yorkshire, England, that have tumbled into the sea in the last few centuries as the North Sea gnaws its way westward and erodes the cliffs.
When the ice sheets grew, the sea level would drop as water became locked up in the glaciers; when the ice melted, the sea level would rise again.
Falls in sea level often exposed a number of important land bridges, such as those linking Alaska to northeast Asia and Britain to northwest Europe, a phenomenon with far reaching effects not only on human colonization of the globe but also on the environment as a whole-the flora and fauna of isolated or insular areas were radically and often irreversibly affected.
When the ice sheets were at their greatest extent some 18,000 years ago (the glacier maximum), it is thought that the fall was about 120 meters, which therefore created not merely a bridge but a vast plain, 1,000 kilometers from the north to the south, which has been called Beringia.
The assessment of past rises and falls in sea level requires study of submerged land surfaces off the coast and of raised of elevated beaches on land.
Raised beaches are remnants of former coastlines at higher levels relative to the present shoreline and visible, for instance, along the Californian coast north of San Francisco, the height of a raised beach above the present shoreline, however, does not generally give a straightforward indication of the height of a former sea level.
In the majority of cases, the beaches lie at a higher level because the land has been raised up through isostatic uplift or tectonic movement.
Tectonic movements involve displacements in the plates that make up Earth  s crust, Middle and Late Pleistocene raised beaches in the Mediterranean are one instance of such movements.
Raised beaches often consist of areas of sand, pebbles, or dunes, sometimes containing seashells or piles of debris comprising shells and bones of marine animals used by humans.
By about 1150 the Spanish had developed the first mill for making cheap paper (a word contracted from "papyrus", which became the standard term).
Even in England, where technology lagged far behind, a sheet of paper, or eight octavo pages, cost only a penny by the fifteenth century. 
In the years 1446-1448, two German goldsmiths, Johannes Gutenberg and Johann Fust, made use of cheap paper to introduce a critical improvement in the way written pages were reproduced.
It had three merits: it could be used repeatedly until worn out; it was cast in metal from a mold and so could be renewed without difficulty; and it made lettering uniform.
In 1450, Gutenberg began work on his Bible, the first printed book, known as the Gutenberg.
As Gutenberg, apart from getting the key idea, had to solve a lot of practical problems, including imposing paper and ink into the process and the actual printing itself, for which he adapted the screw press used by winemakers, it is amazing that his first product does not look at all rudimentary.
Such workshops were able to take on printing easily, and it thus became Europe's first true industry.
Presses sprang up in several German cities, and by 1470, Nuremberg, Germany had established itself as the center of the international publishing trade, printing books from 24 presses and distributing them at trade fairs all over western and central Europe.
Although there was no competition between the technologies, there was rivalry between nations.
German printers had the disadvantage of working with the complex typeface that the Italians sneeringly referred to as "Gothic" and that later became known as black letter.
The Italians, on the other hand, had a clear typeface known as roman that became the type of the future.
However, since many nations and governments wanted their own presses, the trade quickly became international.
The total number of books on the entire Continent was well under 100,000.
The Industrial Revolution had several roots, one of which was a commercial revolution that, beginning as far back as the sixteenth century, accompanied Europe  s expansion overseas.
Imports included a variety of new beverages, spices, and ship  s goods around the world and brought money flowing back.
Europe  s economic institutions, particularly those in England, were strong, had wealth available for new investment, and seemed almost to be waiting for some technological breakthrough that would expand their profit-making potential even more.
As well as cottage workers, who had the potential of being more mobile than peasants of some other countries.
The British people were also consumers; the absence of internal tariffs, such as those that existed in France or Italy or between the German states, made Britain the largest free-trade area in Europe.
Great Britain  s better-developed banking and credit system also helped speed the industrial progress, as did the fact that it was the home of an impressive array of entrepreneurs and inventors.
Among them were a large number of nonconformists whose religious principles encouraged thrift and industry rather than luxurious living and who tended to pour their profits back into their business, thus providing the basis for continued expansion.
At the same time, people were moving to the city, partly because of the enclosure movement; that is, the fencing of common fields and pastures in order to provide more compact, efficient privately held agricultural parcels that would produce more goods and greater profits.
As a result, many small, independent farmers were forced to sell out simply because they could not compete.
It was such people who began to flock to the cities seeking employment and who found work in the factories that would transform the nation and, the worl
