In lowland country almost any spot on the ground may overlie what was once the bed of a river that has since become buried by soil; if they are now below the water  s upper surface (the water table), the gravels and sands of the former riverbed, and its sandbars, will be saturated with groundwater. 
This is because the gaps among the original grains are often not totally plugged with cementing chemicals; also, parts of the original grains may become dissolved by percolating groundwater, either while consolidation is taking place or at any time afterwards.
At the upper timberline the trees begin to become twisted and deformed.
Great tracts of lowland country deforested by logging, fire, or both have become ideal feeding grounds of deer.
Research has focused on the toxic effects of heavy metals such as lead, cadmium, mercury, and aluminum; however, even copper and zinc, which are essential elements, can become toxic in high concentrations.
But as more and more accumulations of strata were cataloged in more and more places, it became clear that the sequences of rocks sometimes differed from region to region and that no rock type was ever going to become a reliable time marker throughout the world.
Not only could Smith identify rock strata by the fossils they contained, he could also see a pattern emerging: certain fossils always appear in more ancient sediments, while others begin to be seen as the strata become more recent.
Few have directly questioned what might lead a teacher to want to become reflective.
Only when European decorative themes were introduced did these meanings become obscured or even lost.
In stone toolmaking experiments, Nick Toth, a right-hander, held the core (the stone that would become the tool) in his left hand and the hammer stone in his right.
The introduction of new screen formats was put off for a quarter century, and color, though utilized over the next two decades for special productions, also did not become a norm until the 1950s.
In recent years, groundwater has become an increasingly important source of freshwater for desert dwellers.
When an association continues long enough for two people to become linked together by a relatively stable set of expectations, it is called a relationship.
Observational assessment techniques have become much more sophisticated, reducing the limitations just presented.
The intention is for the positively perceived attributes of the celebrity to be transferred to the advertised product and for the two to become automatically linked in the audience's mind.
From north to south in the Yucatan Peninsula, where the Maya lived, rainfall ranges from 18 to 100 inches (457 to 2,540 millimeters) per year, and the soils become thicker, so that the southern peninsula was agriculturally more productive and supported denser populations.
Because the flippers are comparatively thin and blade-like, they are the one part of the leatherback that is likely to become chilled.
Cases in which many species become extinct within a geologically short interval of time are called mass extinctions.
As the air space around them is lessened by compaction and melting, the grains become denser.
With additional time, pressure, and refrozen meltwater from above, the small firn granules become larger, interlocked crystals of blue glacial ice.
When the ice is thick enough, usually over 30 meters, the weight of the snow and firn will cause the ice crystals toward the bottom to become plastic and to flow outward or downward from the area of snow accumulation.
When snowfalls on high mountains or in polar regions, it may become part of the glacial system.
Certain institutional and practical norms had become established as well.     
At such temperatures, the collision between the ice pellets and the ice crystals causes electrical charges to shift so that the ice pellets acquire a negative charge and the ice crystals become positively charged.
The circumstances that had allowed natives to become Romanized also led the self-sustaining military community of the frontier area to become effectively British.
Leaves and tissue of soft-bodied organisms such as jellyfish or worms may accumulate, become buried and compressed, and lose their volatile constituents.
To start with, it forced the population to abandon the nomad's life and become sedentary, to develop methods of storage and, often, systems of irrigation.
Once children become capable of answering such questions as "What does it mean to remember?"
Even with a massive effort, it is doubtful that complete eradication of Spartina from nonnative habitats is possible, for it has become an integral part of these shorelines and estuaries during the last 100 to 200 years.
There was also a demand among urban consumers for dairy products such as butter and cheese, which, in the sixteenth century, had become more expensive than grain.
The questions become more complicated when actual volumes of water are considered: how much water enters and leaves by each route?
The slowing down of water renewal leads to a chain of further consequences; it causes dissolved chemicals to become increasingly concentrated, and this, in turn, has a marked effect on all living things in the lake.
Some of the muscles that help keep the upper airway open when breathing tend to become more relaxed during sleep, especially during REM (the phase of sleep in which there is rapid eye movement).
This was a landscape where antelope of all kinds abounded  along with Bos primigenius, a kind of oxen that has become extinct.
Eventually the subpopulations become so genetically distinct that they cannot interbreed even if the physical barriers between them were removed.
These soils usually contain large amounts of clay and easily become water-saturated.
Success in colonization depends to a great extent on there being a site available for colonization---a safe site where disturbance by fire or by cutting down of trees has either removed competing species or reduced levels of competition and other negative interactions to a level at which the invading species can become established.
In time, the   big men   become formal symbols of authority and pass on that authority to others within their own family.
A sharp rise in demand for grain abroad also encouraged farmers in the Northeast and Midwest to become more commercially oriented.
Although paper was never as cheap as it has become today, it was far less expensive than parchment, and therefore more people could afford to buy books.
Vast forests enabled Russia to become the world  s leading producer of iron, much of which was exported to Britain.
Over time, the layers become sedimentary rock.
This may be one of the factors, but it is unlikely to be the sole cause because there are species that become dominant species at various temperatures.
For example, in highly acidic soils where few bacteria can survive, fungi frequently become the chief decomposers of organic matter. 
In industrialized areas, lichens are destroyed by pollution, tree barks become darker, and dark moths are the ones birds have difficulty detecting.
Compressed, it became water and earth, and when rarefied or thinned out, it heated up to become fire.
This may be either to establish a new population where a population of conspecifics ( animals or plants belonging to the same species) has become extinct or to add individuals to an existing population.
Raccoons have been able to exploit crops, especially com but also cereal grains, which have become dependable food sources for them.
By the 1960s the raccoon had become a major predator of the canvasback ducks nesting in southwestern Manitoba.
However, in some cases, it may become a serious problem.
Between 80 and 85 million years ago, Gondwanaland, a giant continent made up of what today is Africa, Antarctica, Australia, and South America, broke up, thus causing what is now New Zealand to become separated from the larger landmass.
However, loggers concentrated on removing those big, old, valuable, fire-resistant ponderosa pines, while fire suppression for decades let the understory fill up with Douglas fir saplings that would in turn become valuable when full-grown.
When a fire finally does start in a sapling-choked forest, whether due to lightning or human carelessness or (regrettably often) intentional arson, the dense, tall saplings young trees) may become a ladder that allows the fire to jump into the crowns of the trees.
A mountain range may emerge and gradually split a population of organisms that can inhabit only lowland lakes; certain fish populations might become isolated in this way.
Completely isolated on the island after migrating from the mainland, the founder population may have undergone significant changes in its gene pool and become a new species.
It is now well established that petroleum migrates through aquifers and can become trapped in reservoirs.
What ecological pressures might have caused fishes to gradually abandon their watery habitat and become increasingly land-dwelling creatures?
Even fishes can become successful filter-feeders in some circumstances Although the vast majority of marine fishes are carnivores, in near-surface regions of high productivity the concentrations of larger phytoplankton (the plant component of plankton) are sufficient to support huge populations of filter-feeding sardines and anchovies.
Many of the groups of animals that typify the filter-feeding lifestyle in shallow water have deep-sea representatives that have become predatory.
Among the fishes there is a tendency for the teeth and jaws to become appreciably enlarged.
Clay, moreover, is cheap, and forming it into tablets is easy, factors that helped the clay tablet become the preferred writing material not only throughout Mesopotamia but far outside it as well, in Syria, Asia Minor, Persia, and even for a while in Crete and Greece.
Since termites are small and soft-bodied, they easily become desiccated and must live in moist places with a high relative humidity.
