In lowland country almost any spot on the ground may overlie what was once the bed of a river that has since become buried by soil; if they are now below the water  s upper surface (the water table), the gravels and sands of the former riverbed, and its sandbars, will be saturated with groundwater. 
Sediment above and below the gypsum layer contained tiny marine fossils, indicating open-ocean conditions.
Their calculations show that the impact kicked up a dust cloud that cut off sunlight for several months, inhibiting photosynthesis in plants; decreased surface temperatures on continents to below freezing; caused extreme episodes of acid rain; and significantly raised long-term global temperatures through the greenhouse effect.
The Hellas Basin, which measures some 3,000 kilometers across and has a floor that lies nearly 9 kilometers below the basin  s rim, is another candidate for an ancient Martian sea.
But detractors maintain that the terracescould also have been created by geological activity, perhaps related to the geologic forces that depressed the Northern Hemisphere far below the level of the south, in which case they have nothing whatever to do with Martian water.
For example, a gap just below aluminum suggested a new element would be found with properties analogous to those of aluminum.
The detailed appearance of Martian impact craters provides an important piece of information about conditions just below the planet's surface.
The success of the steam engine resulted in increased demands for coal, and the consequent increase in coal production was made possible as the steam-powered pumps drained water from the ever-deeper coal seams found below the water table.
Another way of countering drought is to have a limited amount of mass above ground and to have extensive root networks below ground.
The water table is the underground boundary below which all the cracks and pores are filled with water.
In some cases, the water table reaches Earth's surface, where it is expressed as rivers, lakes, and marshes.Typically, though, the water table may be tens or hundreds of meters below the surface.The water table is not flat but usually follows the contours of the topography.
In addition, trees can extend their roots deep within the soil and bring up nutrients from far below the surface.
It brought back mud laced with worms, and starfish that dad entangled themselves in the line at depths well below the supposed boundary of the azoic zone.
There is also a large mass of material, developed below ground as root tissues, but this is less apparent Careful analysis of the aboveground material reveals that it is arranged in a series of layers, the precise number of layers varying with age and the nature of the forest The arrangement of the biological mass (biomass) of the vegetation into layered forms is termed its "structure" (as opposed to its "composition", which refers to the species of organisms forming the community).
Without the upwelling of nutrients from below to feed the fish, fishing comes to a standstill.
These differences suggest a sadlike cavity below the front end of the gut that can only be interpreted as a lung.
The high rate of metabolism (the processing of energy for survival) of the microorganisms in the sediments causes sediments to be anaerobic (without oxygen) below the first few millimeters.
When it is cold in winter, subterranean termites move to burrows below the frost line. 
The interior consists of a large central core in which the fungus is grown, below it is   cellar   of empty space, above it is an   attic   of empty space, and within the ridges on the outer wall of the nest, there are many small tunnels that connect the cellar and the attic.
The duck-billed dinosaurs known as hadrosaurs are a good example of a group whose jaw joint is below the level of the tooth row, which probably helped them grind up tough, fibrous vegetation. 
