Having little understanding of natural causes, it attributes both desirable and undesirable occurrences to supernatural or magical forces, and it searches for means to win the favor of these forces.
However, unlike the cases of sea otters and pinnipeds (seals, sea lions, and walruses, whose limbs are functional both on land and at sea), it is not easy to envision what the first whales looked like.
The legs were certainly functional both on land and at sea.
The mediocre design of many contemporary buildings can be traced to both clients and architects.
Great tracts of lowland country deforested by logging, fire, or both have become ideal feeding grounds of deer.
A third fossil formation containing both soft-bodied and hard-bodied animals provides evidence of the result of the Cambrian explosion.
The new age of machinery, in short, could not have been born without a new source of both movable and constant power.
Like the stone of Roman wall, which were held together both by the regularity of the design and by that peculiarly powerful Roman cement, so the various parts of the Roman realm were bonded into a massive, monolithic entity by physical, organizational, and psychological controls.
Even today, microscopic meteorites continually bombard Earth, falling on both land and sea.
From early times pots were used in both religious and secular contexts.
There is a growing body of opinion that both these physical variations have a measurable impact on the climate.
The effect is altogether lighter and freer than that achieved in stone, but because both perform the same function, formal wooden and metal statues still display frontality.
Primary groups, then, serve both as carriers of social norms and as enforcers of them.
The author George Comstock suggested that less than a quarter of children between the ages of six and eight years old understood standard disclaimers used in many toy advertisements and that disclaimers are more readily comprehended when presented in both audio and visual formats.
Accomplishing this feat requires adaptations both to generate heat in the turtle  s body and to keep it from escaping into the surrounding waters.
To date, several such secondary craters have been found along Mexico  s Yucatan Peninsula, and heat-shocked quartz has been found both in Mexico and in Haiti.
Dependence on long-distance trade also meant that the great empires of the Middle East were built both literally and figuratively on shifting sand.
Yet both chemists were sufficiently farsighted to leave gaps where their analyses of periodic physical and chemical properties indicated that new elements should be located.
The substances that make up both groups of planets are divided into three groups  gases, rocks, and ices  based on their melting points.
Western Europeans had also developed and put into use the magnetic compass, which helped when clouds obliterated both the Sun and the stars.
The male riflebird exploits both of these modes of signaling simultaneously in his courtship display.
The third type of symbiosis, mutualism, benefits both partners in the relationship.
In both 1850 and 1914, the Scandinavian countries had the highest literacy rates in Europe, or in the world, and the Netherlands was well above the European average.
The imposition of a military base involved the requisition of native lands for both the fort and the territory needed to feed and exercise the soldiers' animals.
Scientific experiments made by photographers such as Eadweard Muybridge (1830-1904) and Etienne-Jules Marey (1830-1904) demonstrated that the movements of both humans and animals differed widely from the way they had been traditionally represented in art.
Apart from this, being able to give up labor-intensive grain production freed both the land and the workforce for more productive agricultural divisions.
As the demand for agricultural produce from both consumers and industry increased, agricultural land became more valuable and people tried to work the available land more intensively and to reclaim more land from wetlands and lakes.
Prices of spices delivered by ship from the eastern Mediterranean came to equal those of spices transported by Paortuguese vessels, but the increase in quantity with both routes in operation drove the price far down.
Thus, both factors can affect the cycle, which, in practice, seems to be generated by the conjunction of the two factors.
At the same time, both cattle and humans were more confined in their movements, staying much closer to permanent water supplies for long periods of time.
It is still unclear whether domesticated cattle were tamed independently in northern Africa or introduced to the continent from Southwest Asia.Whatever the source of the original tamed herds might have been, it seems entirely likely that much the same process of juxtaposition (living side by side) and control occurred in both Southwest Asia and northern Africa, and even in Europe, among peoples who had an intimate knowledge of the behavior of wild cattle.
It was found that when a white-tailed buck makes a rub, it moves both antlers and forehead glands along the small tree in a vertical direction.
Because both sexes of whitetails respond to buck rubs by smelling and licking them, rubs may serve a very important additional function.
Thus, like a buck rub, a scrape is both a visual and an olfactory signal.
In England, the Saxons are thought to have used both horizontal-and vertical-axis wheels.
Most researchers expect to find that both modes of transition from one species to another are at work in evolution.
The clock brought order and control, both collective and personal.
Second, it appears that closely related populations of fishes on both sides of the isthmus are starting to genetically diverge from each other.
In short, children require development appropriate educational practice, which is education that is based on both typical development and the unique characteristics of a given child. 
Though most savannas are found on sites with poor soils(because of either moisture conditions or nutrient levels of both), poor soils can and do support lush rain forest. 
The rate at which a site is colonized by plants depends on both the rate at which individual organisms (seeds, spores, immature or mature individuals) arrive at the site and their success at becoming established and surviving.
The rural population both dispersed and grew, and was probably less homogeneous and more mobile than it hand been a generation earlier.
Two physicists during the nineteenth century both came up with ages for the Sun based on the Sun's energy coming from gravitational contraction.
It was the discovery of radioactivity at the end of the nineteenth century that opened the door to determining both the Sun  s energy source and the age of Earth.
By the 1960s, both analysis of meteorites and refinements of solar evolution models converged on an age for the solar system, and hence for Earth, of 4.5 billion years.
But the effect of secretions by all the individuals of the dominant species can be significant both for themselves and for other species.
Although it is suspected that these organic metabolites may have an important role in species succession and it has been demonstrated in the laboratory that phytoplankton species vary both in their ability to produce necessary vitamins and in their requirements for such in order to grow, evidence is still inadequate as to their real role in the sea.
In addition, earthworms mix of soil both vertically and horizontally, improving aeration and drainage. 
In both cases, wild individuals are captured in one location and translocated directly to another.
The translocations took place in 1988 and 1990, and both have resulted in healthy breeding populations.
The terra-cotta tiles were used both to encase the supporting members and as flooring.
Within the United States, they are commonly taken from one area to another, both legally and illegally, to restock hunting areas and, presumably, because people simply want them to be part of their local fauna.
It even affects the climate on a very local level (the "microclimate') by influencing light intensity, humidity, and both the range and extremes of temperature.
The original atmospheres of both Venus and Earth were derived at least in part from gases spewed forth, or outgassed, by volcanoes.
These gases should therefore have been important parts of the original atmospheres of both Venus and Earth.
Much of the water on both planets is also thought to have come from impacts from comets, icy bodies formed in the outer solar system.
Venus and Earth are similar in size and mass, so Venusian volcanoes may well have outgassed as much water vapor as on Earth, and both planets would have had about the same number of comets strike their surfaces.
But if water vapor and carbon dioxide were once so common in the atmospheres of both Earth and Venus, what became of Earth  s carbon dioxide?
As agricultural economies became more diversified and local food supplies could be purchased both locally and over longer distances, a far-reaching economic interdependence resulted.
Authorities at both ends might regulate the profits fed back to the source, providing the incentive for further transactions.
Petroleum is therefore a term that includes both oil and natural gas.
Since seagrass systems exist in both sheltered and relatively open areas, they are subject to differing amounts of water motion.
The recognition that many aspects of the modem flora and fauna were present on both sides of the Bering Sea as remnants of the ice-age landscape led to this region being named Beringia.
Supremacy was accentuated by the unyielding straight lines of both individual buildings and planned settlements since these too provided a marked contrast with the natural curvilinear shapes dominant in the native realm.
The worker and soldier castes of termites consist of both males and females, and the queen lives permanently with a male consort. 
Indeed, they have been called the marine version of the tropical rain forest, rivaling their terrestrial counterparts in both richness of species and biological productivity.
Because the flat teeth of herbivores work like grindstones, however, the jaws mush move both side to side and front to back.
This process helps explain why both tend to be more frequent over cities.
