To be architecture, a building must achieve a working harmony with a variety of elements.
It is the work of architects to create buildings that are not simply constructions but also offer inspiration and delight.
The client who pays for the building and defines its function is an important member of the architectural team.
The mediocre design of many contemporary buildings can be traced to both clients and architects.
In order for the structure to achieve the size and strength necessary to meet its purpose, architecture employs methods of support that, because they are based on physical laws, have changed little since people first discovered them  even while building materials have changed dramatically.
Today technology has progressed to the point where it is possible to invent new building materials to suit the type of structure desired.
Progress in this area can be measured by the difference in weight between buildings built now and those of comparable size built one hundred years ago.
Roman builders perfected the semicircular arch made of separate blocks of stone.
The basic cultural requirements for the successful colonization of the Pacific islands include the appropriate boat-building, sailing, and navigation skills to get to the islands in the first place, domesticated plants and gardening skills suited to often marginal conditions, and a varied inventory of fishing implements and techniques.
This was before the steam locomotive, and canal building was at its height.
The companies building the canals to transport coal needed surveyors to help them find the coal deposits worth mining as well as to determine the best courses for the canals.
It had over 2,000 apartment complexes, a great market, a large number of industrial workshops, an administrative center, a number of massive religious edifices, and a regular grid pattern of streets and buildings.
To build up a better picture of fluctuations appreciably further back in time requires us to use proxy records.
Shortly after 1400, shipbuilders began developing a new type of vessel properly designed to operate in rough, open water: the caravel.
All had immediate access to the sea, and this had important implications for a significant international resource, fish, as well as for cheap transport, merchant marines, and the shipbuilding industry.
Hence a writing tablet dated 25 April tells of 343 men at one fort engaged on tasks like shoemaking, building a bathhouse, operating kilns, digging clay, and working lead.
    Earth's internal heat, fueled by radioactivity, provides the energy for plate tectonics and continental drift, mountain building, and earthquakes.
All the heat that warms a building eventually transfers to the surrounding air, a process that is quickest where houses are poorly insulated.
The second factor is that radiant heat coming into the city from the Sun is trapped in two ways: (1) by a continuing series of reflection among the numerous vertical surfaces that buildings present and (2) by the dust dome, the cloudlike layer of polluted air that most cities produce.
Wind movements are also modified in cities because buildings increase the friction on air flowing around them.
Private shipbuilders were required to buy their oak abroad.
As the costs of shipbuilding rose, Venice clung to its outdated standard while the Dutch were innovation in the lighter and more easily handled ships.
Historian Frederic Lane observes that after the loss of ships in battle in the late sixteenth century, the shipbuilding industry no long had the capacity to recover that it had displayed at the start of the century. 
It was this that made the organization of irrigation, particularly the building of canals to channel and preserve the water, essential.
Therefore, it results in the loss of fuel or energy that might better be used for growth or for building up fat stores in a young animal.
By noting that individual floods deposit only thin layers of sediment, he was able to conclude that the Nile Delta had taken many thousands of years to build up.
At the end of the nineteenth century, there were basically two kinds of buildings in the United States.
On one hand were the buildings produced for the wealthy or for civic purposes, which tended to echo the architecture of the past and to use traditional styles of ornamentation.
Such buildings, however, were viewed in a category separate from   fine   architecture, and in fact were often designed by engineers and builders rather than architects.
The development of modern architecture might in large part be seen as an adaptation of this sort of functional building and its pervasive application for daily use.
The fundamental premise of modern architecture was that the appearance of the building should exhibit the nature of its materials and forms of physical support.
For example, in traditional architecture, stone or brick walls served a structural role, but in a steel-beam building the walls were essentially hung from the internal skeleton of steel beams, which meant that walls and corners no longer needed to be solid but could be opened up in unexpected ways.
Similarly, steel beams could be used to construct balconies that projected out from the building without any support beneath them.
The ways in which new technology transformed architectural design are dramatically illustrated through the evolution of the high-rise office building.
Steel construction, on the other hand, can support a building of 50 or 100 stories without difficulty.
Such buildings were so different from any previous form of architecture that they quickly acquired a new name  the skyscraper.
But to create usable high-rise buildings, a number of technical challenges needed to be solved.
The metal supporting buildings became soft when exposed to fire and collapsed relatively quickly.
A structure built with steel beams protected by terra-cotta tiles was still three times lighter than a comparably sized building that used masonry construction, so the weight of the tiles was not a problem.
Fortunately, however, many tablets survived because they were accidentally fired when the buildings they were stored in burned. 
Various committees acted as an executive branch, implementing policies of the assembly and supervising, for instance, the food and water supplies and public buildings.
In a tropical rain forest, for example, a very large quantity of plant material builds up above the surface of the ground.
In the years to come, alliances with the middle classes were to enable kings to weaken aristocratic interests and build the states that came to be called modern.
In the absence of a tradition of Classical stone-carving and building, the desire to develop Roman amenities would have been difficult to fulfill.
This art had a major impact on the native peoples, and one of the most importance factors was a change in the scale of buildings.
The spaces inside even the largest roundhouses were modest, and the use of rounded shapes and organic building materials gave buildings a human scale.
The sheer size of space enclosed within buildings like the basilica of London must have been astonishing.
This was an architecture of dominance in which subject peoples were literally made to feel small by buildings that epitomized imperial power.
Supremacy was accentuated by the unyielding straight lines of both individual buildings and planned settlements since these too provided a marked contrast with the natural curvilinear shapes dominant in the native realm.
However, in addition to corals there are enormous quantities of algae, some calcareous, which help to build the reefs.
At night, the solar energy (stored as vast quantities of heat in city buildings and roads) is slowly released into the city air.
Beginning in the 1770  s, it enjoyed a boom in canal building, which helped make its domestic market more accessible.
