Although this rise of oil is almost always carefully controlled today, spouts of oil, or gushers, were common in the past.
Teachers, it is thought, benefit from the practice of reflection, the conscious act of thinking deeply about and carefully examining the interactions and events within their own classrooms.
Just as painted designs on Greek pots may seem today to be purely decorative, whereas in fact they were carefully and precisely worked out so that at the time, their meaning was clear, so it is with Chinese pots.
Therefore, when observational assessment is used as a technique for studying infant perceptual abilities, care must be taken not to overgeneralize from the data or to rely on one or two studies as conclusive evidence of a particular perceptual ability of the infant.
Film analysis permits researchers to carefully study the infant's responses over and over and in slow motion.
The remarkable mobility and range of pastoral societies explain, in part, why so many linguists have argued that the Indo-European languages began their astonishing expansionist career not among farmers in Anatolia (present-day Turkey), but among early pastoralists from Inner Eurasia.
As among tribespeople, personal relationships and a careful weighing of character have always been crucial in a mercantile economy with little regulation, where one's word is one's bond and where informal ties of trust cement together an international trade network.
Furthermore, the birds orient themselves carefully with regard to the Sun and gently flap their wings to increase convection cooling.
It is generally made with carefully selected and purified clay, worked to thin-walled and standardized shapes on a fast wheel and fired in a kiln (pottery oven) capable of ensuring a consistent finish.
A scientific theory about the universe, however demands much more than the various observations and analogies that were woven together to form systems of reasoning, carefully constructed as they were, that would eventually culminate in Aristotle  s model of the world and the universe.
When a fire finally does start in a sapling-choked forest, whether due to lightning or human carelessness or (regrettably often) intentional arson, the dense, tall saplings young trees) may become a ladder that allows the fire to jump into the crowns of the trees.
The assembly was sovereign in all matters but in practice delegated its power to subordinate bodies such as the council, which prepared the agenda firm for meetings of the assembly, and the courts, which took care of most judicial matters.
However, in addition to corals there are enormous quantities of algae, some calcareous, which help to build the reefs.
