With the advent of projection, the viewer's relationship with the image was no longer private, as it had been with earlier peepshow devices such as the Kinetoscope and the Mutoscope, which was a similar machine that reproduced motion by means of successive images on individual photographic cards instead of on strips of celluloid.
The geologic timescale is marked by significant geologic and biological events, including the origin of Earth about 4.6 billion years ago, the origin of life about 3.5 billion years ago, the origin of eukaryotic life-forms (living things that have cells with true nuclei) about 1.5 billion years ago, and the origin of animals about 0.6 billion years ago.
The origin of multicellular forms of life seems a relatively simple step compared to the origin of life itself.
The sheer passage of time does not account for it; adults have excellent recognition of pictures of people who attended high school with them 35 years earlier.
These plants propagate by producing spores Ctiny fertilized cells that contain all the instructions for making a new plant Cbut the spore are unprotected by any outer coating and carry no supply of nutrient.
Right-handers tend to have longer, stronger, and more muscular bones on the right side, and Marcellin Boule as long ago as 1911 noted the La Chapelle-aux-Saints Neanderthal skeleton had a right upper arm bone that was noticeably stronger than the left.
Among Neanderthalers of 70,000 C35,000 years ago, Marcellin Boule noted that the La Chapelle-aux-Saints individual had a left hemisphere slightly bigger than the right, and the same was found for brains of specimens from Neanderthal, Gibraltar, and La Quina. 
Leatherbacks apparently do not generate internal heat the way we do, or the way birds do, as a by-product of cellular metabolism.
The fossils buried in Pleistocene and earlier ocean sediments were of foraminifera  small, single-celled marine organisms that secrete shells of calcium carbonate, or calcite.
The ancestors of plants were photosynthetic single-celled organisms that gave rise to plants presumably lacked true roots, stems, leaves, and complex reproductive structures such as flowers.
Green algae store food as starch, as do land plants and have cell walls made of cellulose, similar in composition to those of land plants.
Again, the good storage and cell wall molecules of red and brown algae are different.
Unlike aquatic and marine forms, land plants cannot always rely on water currents to carry their sex cells and disperse their fertilized eggs.
So the most successful groups of land plants are those that evolved methods of fertilized sex cell dispersal that are independent of water and structures that protest developing embryos from drying out.
Protected embryos and waterless k dispersal of sex cells were achieved with the origin of seed plans and the key evolutionary innovations that they introduced: pollen, seeds, and later, flowers and fruits.
The period from about 1650 until 1800 saw some excellent scientific and technical investigations of different designs.
Other studies have shown that greater stimulation not only affects the size of the brain but also increases the number of connections between the nerve cells.
It has been said that Chinese papermakers were among the prisoners captured in a battle fought near Samarqand between the Chinese and the Muslims in 751, and the technique of papermaking---in which cellulose pulp extracted from any of several plants is first suspended in water, caught on a fine screen, and then dried into flexible sheets---slowly spread westward.
In such cases, the population explosion of dinoflagellates is so great that the water becomes brownish red in color from the billions of dinoflagellate cells.
Although each cell secretes a minute amount of toxin, the massive dinoflagellate numbers cause the toxin to reach concentrations that kill many creatures.
Under favorable conditions, a million or more of these tiny, single-celled plants can inhabit each cubic centimeter of soil.
These single-celled organisms are the most numerous representatives of the animal kingdom, and, like bacteria, a million or more can sometimes inhabit each cubic centimeter of soil.
Before microscopes were first used in the seventeenth century, no one knew that living organisms were composed of cells.
The light microscope cannot resolve detail finer than 0.2 micrometers, about the size of the smallest bacterium; consequently, no matter how many times its image of such a bacterium is magnified, the light microscope cannot show the details of the cell  s internal structure.
From the year 1665, when English microscopist Robert Hooke discovered cells, until the middle of the twentieth century, biologists had only light microscopes for viewing cells.
But they discovered a great deal, including the cells composing animal and plant tissues, microscopic organisms, and some of the structures within cells.
By the mid-1800s, these discoveries led to the cell theory, which states that all living things are composed of cells and that all cells come from other cells. 
Our knowledge of cell structure took a giant leap forward as biologists began using the electron microscope in the 1950s.
However, cells, cellular organelles, and even molecules like DNA and protein are much larger than single atoms. 
Biologists use the scanning electron microscope to study the detailed architecture of cell surfaces.
It uses an electron beam to scan the surface of a cell or group of cells that have been coated with metal.
The metal stops the beam from going through the cells.
The electrons are focused to form an image of the outside of the cells.
The transmission electron microscope, on the other hands, is used to study the details of internal cell structure.
Electron microscopes have truly revolutionized the study of cells and cell organelles.
Thus, the light microscope remains a useful tool, especially for studying living cells.
The size of a cell often determines the type of microscope a biologist uses to study it. 
In the ocean, microscopic phytoplankton (tiny floating plants) and bacteria (simple, single-celled organisms) are the principal sources of organic matter that is trapped and buried in sediment Most of the organic matter is buried in clay that is slowly converted to a fine-grained sedimentary rock known as shale.
Pollen, a powdery substance, which is produced by flowering plants and contains male reproductive cells, is usually carried from plant to plant by insects or birds, but some plants rely on the wind to carry their pollen.
In ancient times the banks of the Nile were lined with papyrus plants, and from the papyrus reeds the Egyptians made a form of paper; it was excellent in quality but, like any paper, fragile.
The interior consists of a large central core in which the fungus is grown, below it is   cellar   of empty space, above it is an   attic   of empty space, and within the ridges on the outer wall of the nest, there are many small tunnels that connect the cellar and the attic.
From the attic, the air passes into the tunnels in the ridges and flows back down to the cellar.
Thus air that flows down into the cellar through the ridges is relatively rich in oxygen, and has lost much of its carbon dioxide.
