The most widely accepted theory, championed by anthropologists in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, envisions theater as emerging out of myth and ritual.
One, set forth by Aristotle in the fourth century B.C., sees humans as naturally imitative  as taking pleasure in imitating persons, things, and actions and in seeing such imitations.
Another, advanced in the twentieth century, suggests that humans have a gift for fantasy, through which they seek to reshape reality into more satisfying forms than those encountered in daily life.
Immediately adjacent to the timberline, the tundra consists of a fairly complete cover of low-lying shrubs, herbs, and grasses, while higher up the number and diversity of species decrease until there is much bare ground with occasional mosses and lichens and some prostrate cushion plants.
This enables them to avoid the worst rigors of high winds and permits them to make use of the higher temperatures immediately adjacent to the ground surface.
Missing until recently were fossils clearly intermediate, or transitional, between land mammals and cetaceans.
The deserts, which already occupy approximately a fourth of the Earth's land surface, have in recent decades been increasing at an alarming pace.
Once the soil has been removed by erosion, only the passage of centuries or millennia will enable new soil to form.
For the price of 25 cents (or 5 cents per machine), customers moved from machine to machine to watch five different films (or, in the case of famous prizefights, successive rounds of a single fight).
Exhibitors, however, wanted to maximize their profits, which they could do more readily by projecting a handful of films to hundreds of customers at a time (rather than one at a time) and by charging 25 to 50 cents admission.
The arch is among the many important structural breakthroughs that have characterized architecture throughout the centuries.
The vast grasslands of the High Plains in the central United States were settled by farmers and ranchers in the 1880s.
In the early twentieth century, however, it was discovered that much of the High Plains was underlain by a huge aquifer (a rock layer containing large quantities of groundwater).
Estimates indicate that the aquifer contains enough water to fill Lake Huron, but unfortunately, under the semiarid climatic conditions that presently exist in the region, rates of addition to the aquifer are minimal, amounting to about half a centimeter a year.
In addition, 40 percent of American grain-fed beef cattle are fattened here.
It is projected that the remaining Ogallala water will, by the year 2030, support only 35 to 40 percent of the irrigated acreage in Texas that is supported in 1980.
Others, however, have adopted the philosophy that it is best to use the water while it is still economically profitable to do so and to concentrate on high-value crops such as cotton.
The incentive of the farmers who wish to conserve water is reduced by their knowledge that many of their neighbors are profiting by using great amounts of water, and in the process are drawing down the entire region  s water supplies.
Somewhat more promising have been recent experiments for releasing capillary water (water in the soil) above the water table by injecting compressed air into the ground.
Whatever the final answer to the water crisis may be, it is evident that within the High Plains, irrigation water will never again be the abundant, inexpensive resource it was during the agricultural boom years of the mid-twentieth century.
A local population that goes extinct is quickly replaced by immigrants from an adjacent community.
Later on in the early years of the nineteenth century, when Fort Vancouver became the headquarters of the Hudson's Bay Company, deer populations continued to fluctuate.
A recent Douglas biographer states:" The deer which once picturesquely dotted the meadows around the fort were gone [in 1832], hunted to extermination in order to protect the crops."
Water or steam may be pumped down adjacent wells to help push the oil out.
Even given the best extraction techniques, only about 30 to 40 percent of the oil in a given pool can be brought to the surface.
Saline soils, which have high concentrations of sodium chloride and other salts, limit plant growth, and research continues to focus on developing salt-tolerant varieties of agricultural crops.
Research has focused on the toxic effects of heavy metals such as lead, cadmium, mercury, and aluminum; however, even copper and zinc, which are essential elements, can become toxic in high concentrations.
Scientists have known for some time that certain plants, called hyperaccumulators, can concentrate minerals at levels a hundredfold or greater than normal.
A survey of known hyperaccumulators identified that 75 percent of them amassed nickel, cobalt, copper, zinc, manganese, lead, and cadmium are other minerals of choice.
Many are found in tropical and subtropical areas of the world, where accumulation of high concentrations of metals may afford some protection against plant-eating insects and microbial pathogens.
Only recently have investigators considered using these plants to clean up soil and waste sites that have been contaminated by toxic levels of heavy metals Can environmentally friendly approach known as phytoremediation.
For examples, in field trials, the plant alpine pennycress removed zinc and cadmium from soils near a zinc smelter, and Indian mustard, native to Pakistan and India, has been effective in reducing levels of selenium salts by 50 percent in contaminated soils.
Polynesia is the central Pacific area in the great triangle defined by Hawaii, Easter Island, and New Zealand.
Animals originated relatively late in the history of Earth  in only the last 10 percent of Earth  s history.
Scientists have asked important questions about this explosion for more than a century.
Early in the eighteenth century, a pump had come into use in which expanding steam raised a piston in a cylinder, and atmospheric pressure brought it down again when the steam condensed inside the cylinder to form a vacuum.
Coal gas rivaled smoky oil lamps and flickering candles, and early in the new century, well-to-do Londoners grew accustomed to gaslit houses and even streets.
Steam power did not merely spin cotton and roll iron; early in the new century, it also multiplied ten times over the amount of paper that a single worker could produce in a day.
Thus the railroad age sprang from what had already happened in the eighteenth century.
Not only could Smith identify rock strata by the fossils they contained, he could also see a pattern emerging: certain fossils always appear in more ancient sediments, while others begin to be seen as the strata become more recent.
As they drilled into the central and deepest part of the Mediterranean basin, the scientists took solid, shiny, crystalline salt from the core barrel.
In the central deeper part of the basin, the last of the brine evaporated to precipitate more soluble sodium chloride (salt).
It may have developed independently, but many scholars believe that the spread of agriculture and iron throughout Africa linked it to the major centers of the Near East and Mediterranean world.
These peoples settled at first in scattered hunting-and-gathering bands, although in some places near lakes and rivers, people who fished, with a more secure food supply, lived in larger population concentrations.
Finally, the camel was introduced around the first century A.D.
Why and how these people spread out into central and southern Africa remains a mystery, but archaeologists believe that their iron weapons allowed them to conquer their hunting-gathering opponents, who still used stone implements.
It had over 2,000 apartment complexes, a great market, a large number of industrial workshops, an administrative center, a number of massive religious edifices, and a regular grid pattern of streets and buildings.
Clearly, much planning and central control were involved in the expansion and ordering of this great metropolis.
Prior to 200 B.C., a number of relatively small centers coexisted in and near the Valley of Mexico.
Around this time, the largest of these centers, Cuicuilco, was seriously affected by a volcanic eruption, with much of its agricultural land covered by lava.
The archaeological evidence clearly indicates, though, that Teotihuac  n was the center that did arise as the predominant force in the area by the first century A.D.
Moreover, recent research on obsidian tools found at Olmec sites has shown that some of the obsidian obtained by the Olmecs originated near Teotihuac  n. Teotihuac  n obsidian must have been recognized as a valuable commodity for many centuries before the great city arose.
Scientists felt that they could get an idea of how long the extinctions took by determining how long it took to deposit this one centimeter of clay and they thought they could determine the time it took to deposit the clay by determining the amount of the element iridium (Ir) it contained.
Ir is found in high concentrations in some meteorites, in which the solar system  s original chemical composition is preserved.
So the unusually high concentration of Ir seems to require a special explanation.
However, more recent data imply that at least some parts of the planet did in fact experience long periods in the past during which liquid water existed on the surface.
More recent geologic studies documented deglaciation and the existence of ice-free areas throughout major coastal areas of British Columbia, Canada, by 13,000 years ago.
The coastal hypothesis has gained increasing support in recent years because the remains of large land animals, such as caribou and brown bears, have been found in southeastern Alaska dating between 10,000 and 12,500 years ago.
The most recent geologic evidence indicates that it may have been possible for people to colonize ice-free regions along the continental shelf that were still exposed by the lower sea level between13,000 and 14,000 years ago.
Helping this group of teachers to revise their thinking about classroom events became central.
The seed has an outer coating that surrounds the genetic material of the new plant, and inside this covering is a concentrated supply of nutrients.
The earliest ceramics were fired to earthenware temperatures, but as early as the fifteenth century B.C., high-temperature stonewares were being made with glazed surfaces.
Whitewares produced in Hebei and Henan provinces from the seventh to the tenth centuries evolved into the highly prized porcelains of the Song dynasty (AD.
One of the most far-reaching examples is the impact of the fine ninth-century AD.
In the seventeenth century, the trading activities of the Dutch East India Company resulted in vast quantities of decorated Chinese porcelain being brought to Europe, which stimulated and influenced the work of a wide variety of wares, notably Delft.
To twentieth-century eyes, Chinese pottery may appear merely decorative, yet to the Chinese the form of each object and its adornment had meaning and significance.
We need therefore to know how much the climate can vary of its own accord in order to interpret with confidence the extent to which recent changes are natural as opposed to being the result of human activities.
Instrumental records do not go back far enough to provide us with reliable measurements of global climatic variability on timescales longer than a century.
Proxy temperature records have been reconstructed from ice core drilled out of the central Greenland ice cap, calcite shells embedded in layered lake sediments in Western Europe, ocean floor sediment cores from the tropical Atlantic Ocean, ice cores from Peruvian glaciers, and ice cores from eastern Antarctica.
Some current analyses conclude that volcanoes and solar activity explain quite a considerable amount of the observed variability in the period from the seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries, but that they cannot be invoked to explain the rapid warming in recent decades.
In the late sixteenth century and into the seventeenth, Europe continued the growth that had lifted it out of the relatively less prosperous medieval period (from the mid 400s to the late 1400s).
During the sixteenth century, farmers brought more land into cultivation at the expense of forests and fens (low-lying wetlands).
Dutch land reclamation in the Netherlands in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries provides the most spectacular example of the expansion of farmland: the Dutch reclaimed more than 36.000 acres from 1590 to 1615 alone.
By the middle of the sixteenth century, financiers and traders commonly accepted bills of exchange in place of gold or silver for other goods.
At mid-century, an Antwerp financier only slightly exaggerated when he claimed,   0ne can no more trade without bills of exchange than sail without water."
Not until the eighteenth century, however, did such banks as the Bank of Amsterdam and the Bank of England begin to provide capital for business investment.
As the tool was made, the core was rotated clockwise, and the flakes, removed in sequence, had a little crescent of cortex (the core's outer surface) on the side.
Toth's knapping produced 56 percent flakes with the cortex on the right, and 44 percent left-oriented flakes.
At seven sites he found that 57 percent of the flakes were right-oriented, and 43 percent left, a pattern almost identical to that produced today.
About 90 percent of modern humans are right-handed: we are the only mammal with a preferential use of one hand.
The introduction of new screen formats was put off for a quarter century, and color, though utilized over the next two decades for special productions, also did not become a norm until the 1950s.
For centuries, the annual floods of the Nile, Tigris, and Euphrates, for example, have brought fertile silts and water to the inhabitants of their lower valleys.
In recent years, groundwater has become an increasingly important source of freshwater for desert dwellers.
Changes in the electrical pattern of the brain indicate that the stimulus is getting through to the infant's central nervous system and eliciting some form of response.
General concern about misleading tactics that advertisers employ is centered on the use of exaggeration.
In the recent past, the role of celebrities in advertising to children has often been conflated with the concept of host selling.
But rainfall in the Maya homeland is unpredictably variable between years; some recent years have had three or four times more rain than other years.
The problem is that as blood flows through the turtle  s flippers, it risks losing enough heat to lower the animal  s central body temperature when it returns.
Of the various hypotheses attempting to account for the late Cretaceous extinctions, the one that has attracted the most attention in recent years is the asteroid-impact hypothesis first suggested by Luis and Walter Alvarez.
About 2 percent of Earth  s water is currently frozen as ice.
Two percent may be a deceiving figure, however, since over 80 percent of the world  s freshwater is locked up as ice in glaciers, with the majority of it in Antarctica.
Throughout most of Earth  s history, glaciers did not exist, but at the present time about 10 percent of Earth  s land surface is covered by glaciers.
In the recent past, from about 2.4 million to about 10,000 years ago, nearly a third of Earth  s land area was periodically covered by ice thousands of meters thick.
The central state, though often very rich and very populous, was intrinsically fragile, since the development of new international trade routes could undermine the monetary base and erode state power, as occurred when European seafarers circumvented Middle Eastern merchants after Vasco da Gama's voyage around Africa in the late fifteenth century opened up a southern route.
Peripheral peoples therefore had a great advantage in their dealings with the center, making government authority insecure and anxious.
A century earlier, Henry Cavendish had noted the existence of a residual gas when oxygen and nitrogen are removed from air, but its importance had not been realized.
An estimated 99.85 percent of the mass of our solar system is contained within the Sun, while the planets collectively make up most of the remaining 0.15 percent.
The Jovian planets, on the other hand, contain a large percentage of the gases hydrogen and helium, with varying amounts of ices: mostly water, ammonia, and methane ices.
In the fourteenth century, a number of political developments cut Europe's overland trade routes to southern and eastern Asia, with which Europe had had important and highly profitable commercial ties since the twelfth century.
The astrolabe had long been the primary instrument for navigation, having been introduced in the eleventh century.
It operated by measuring the height of the Sun and the fixed stars: by calculating the angles created by these points, it determined the degree of latitude at which one stood (The problem of determining longitude, though, was not solved until the eighteenth century.)
By the early thirteenth century.
Also beginning in the thirteenth century, there were new maps refined by precise calculations and the reports of sailors that made it possible to trace one's path with reasonable accuracy.
A maritime code known as the Consulate of the Sea, which originated in the western Mediterranean region in the fourteenth century, won acceptance by a majority of sea goers as the normative code for maritime conduct; it defined such matters as the authority of a ship's officers, protocols of command, pay structures, the rights of sailors, and the rules of engagement when ships met one another on the sea-lanes.
While some European countries, such as England and Germany, began to industrialize in the eighteenth century, the Netherlands and the Scandinavian countries of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden developed later.
All four of these countries lagged considerably behind in the early nineteenth century.
However, they industrialized rapidly in the second half of the century, especially in the last two or three decades.
At the beginning of the nineteenth century, Denmark and Norway had fewer than 1 million people, while Sweden and the Netherlands had fewer than 2.5 million inhabitants.
All exhibited moderate growth rates in the course of the century (Denmark the highest and Sweden the lowest), but all more than doubled in population by 1900.
Considering human capital as a characteristic of the population, however, all four countries were advantaged by the large percentages of their populations who could read and write.
The people of the Netherlands, with a long tradition of fisheries and mercantile shipping, had difficulty in developing good harbors suitable for steamships: eventually they did so at Rotterdam and Amsterdam, with exceptional results for transit trade with Germany and central Europe and for the processing of overseas foodstuffs and raw materials (sugar, tobacco, chocolate, grain, and eventually oil).
The nineteenth century passed relatively peacefully for these countries, with progressive democratization taking place in all of them.
In Denmark and Sweden agricultural reforms took place gradually from the late eighteenth century through the first half of the nineteenth, resulting in a new class of peasant landowners with a definite market orientation.
In Sweden exports accounted for 18 percent of the national income in 1870, and in 1913, 22 percent of a much larger national income.
In the early twentieth century, Denmark exported 63 percent of its agricultural production: butter, pork products, and eggs.
It exported 80 percent of its butter, almost all to Great Britain, where it accounted for 40 percent of British butter imports.
Concentrations of positively charged particles develop at the top and bottom of the cloud, but the middle region becomes negatively charged.
Recent measurements made in the field together with laboratory simulations offer a promising explanation of how this structure of charged particles forms.
What happens is that small (millimeter-to centimeter-size) pellets of ice form in the cold upper regions of the cloud.
When these ice pellets fall, some of them strike much smaller ice crystals in the center of the cloud.
The temperature at the center of the cloud is about -15   or lower.
The heavier negatively charged ice pellets are left to concentrate in the center.
This process explains why the top of the cloud becomes positively charged, while the center becomes negatively charged.
Lightning that strikes the ground is the most likely to be destructive, so even though it represents only 20 percent of all lightning, it has received a lot of scientific attention.
The channel is only a few centimeters in diameter, but that is wide enough for electrons to follow the channel to the ground in the visible form of a flash of lightning.
In the wake of the Roman Empire's conquest of Britain in the first century A.D., a large number of troops stayed in the new province, and these troops had a considerable impact on Britain with their camps, fortifications, and participation in the local economy.
These settlements acted like small towns, becoming centers for the artisan and trading populations.
It also explains why some of the forts continued in occupation long after Rome ceased to have any formal authority in Britain, at the beginning of the fifth century A.D.
In the late nineteenth century, ecology began to grow into an independent science from its roots in natural history and plant geography.
In the early twentieth century, the American ecologist Frederic Clements pointed out that a succession of plant communities would develop after a disturbance such as a volcanic eruption, heavy flood, or forest fire.
In the middle of the nineteenth century, Louis Agassiz, one of the first scientists to study glaciers, immigrated to the United States from Switzerland and became a professor at Harvard University, where he continued his studies in geology and other sciences.
It was also apparent that the glaciation occurred in the relatively recent past because the drift was soft, like freshly deposited sediment.
The drift of the last glaciation was deposited during one of the most recent epochs of geologic time, the Pleistocene, which lasted from 1.8 million to 10,000 years ago.
As geologists mapped glacial deposits in the late nineteenth century, they became aware that there were several layers of drift, the lower ones corresponding to earlier ice ages.
By the early part of the twentieth century, scientists believed that four distinct glaciations had affected North America and Europe during the Pleistocene epoch. 
This idea was modified in the late twentieth century, when geologists and oceanographers examining oceanic sediment found fossil evidence of warming and cooling of the oceans.
The European ancestors of some Americans had for centuries lived rooted to the same village or piece of land until some religious, political, or economic crisis uprooted them and drove them across the Atlantic.
After the canal went into operation, the cost per mile of transporting a ton of freight from Buffalo to New York City declined from nearly 20 cents to less than 1 cent.
They were no longer a series of small bands but lived in a large community with more elaborate social organization, probably grouped into clans of people of common descent.
The inhabitants turned to wild cereal grasses instead, collecting them by the thousands, while the percentage of nuts in the diet fell.
Five centuries later, about 7700B.C., a new village rose on the mound.
Among the superbly preserved Messel fossils are insects with iridescent exoskeletons (hard outer coverings), frogs with skin and blood vessels intact, and even entire small mammals with preserved fur and soft tissue.
    By far the most abundant form of geothermal energy occurs at the relatively low temperatures of 80   to 180   centigrade.
Geothermal reservoirs with temperatures above 180   centigrade are useful for generating electricity.
They occur primarily in regions of recent volcanic activity as hot, dry rock; natural hot water; or natural steam.
The latter two sources are limited to those few areas where surface water seeps down through underground faults or fractures to reach deep rocks heated by the recent activity of molten rock material.
Geothermal energy probably will not make large-scale contributions to the world energy budget until well into the twenty-first century, if ever.
How did it come about that farming developed independently in a number of world centers (the Southeast Asian mainland, Southwest Asia, Central America, lowland and highland South America, and equatorial Africa) at more or less the same time?
The temperature increased dramatically in a short period of time (years rather than centuries), allowing for a growth of the hunting-gathering population due to the abundance of resources.
Whether Mithen's explanation is satisfactory is open to contention, and some authors have recently emphasized the importance of other factors.
Spartina establishes itself on substrates ranging from sand and silt to gravel and cobble and is tolerant of salinities ranging from that of near freshwater (0.05 percent) to that of salt water (3.5 percent).
Perceptions of the visible world were greatly altered by the invention of photography in the middle of the nineteenth century.
The realistic and naturalistic painters of the mid- and late-nineteenth century were all intently aware of photography  as a thing to use, to learn from, and react to.
Agriculture and fishing formed the primary sector of the economy in the Netherlands in the seventeenth century.
There was also a demand among urban consumers for dairy products such as butter and cheese, which, in the sixteenth century, had become more expensive than grain.
In the sixteenth century, fruit and vegetables were to be found only in gardens belonging to wealthy people.
This changed in the early part of the seventeenth century when horticulture became accepted as an agricultural sector.
Forty-three windmills powered the drainage pumps so that they were able to lease the reclamation to farmers as early as 1612, with the investors receiving annual leasing payments at an interest rate of 17 percent.
However, land reclamation decreased significantly after the middle of the seventeenth century because the price of agricultural products began to fall, making land reclamation far less profitable in the second part of the century. 
Dutch agriculture was finally affected by the general agricultural crisis in Europe during the last two decades of the seventeenth century.
In Europe as a whole, the exceptional reduction in the population and the related fall in demand for grain since the beginning of the seventeenth century had caused the price of agricultural products to fall.
However, toward the end of the seventeenth century, they too were overtaken by the general agricultural crisis.
Early in the nineteenth century, encounters with Aboriginal rock art tended to be infrequent and open to speculative interpretation, but since the late nineteenth century, awareness of the extent and variety of Australian rock art has been growing.
In the latter decades of the twentieth century there were intensified efforts to understand and record the abundance of Australian rock art.
The most significant data have come from a concentration on three major questions.
Simple geometric repeated patterns  circles, concentric circles, and lines  constitute the iconography (characteristic images) of the earliest rock-art sites found across Australia.
And has not twentieth-century art shown that naturalism does not necessarily follow abstraction in some kind of predetermine sequence?
The slowing down of water renewal leads to a chain of further consequences; it causes dissolved chemicals to become increasingly concentrated, and this, in turn, has a marked effect on all living things in the lake.
The first is an automatic, metabolic system whose control is centered in the brain stem.
Its control center is based in the forebrain, and it regulates breathing for use in speech, singing, sighing, and so on.
In the Mesa Verde area of the ancient North American Southwest, living patterns changed in the thirteenth century, with large numbers of people moving into large communal dwellings called pueblos, often constructed at the edges of canyons, especially on the sides of cliffs.
Given all the disadvantages of living in aggregated towns, why did people in the thirteenth century move into these closely packed quarters?
Around Sand Canyon, for example, populations grew from 5 -12 people per square kilometer in the tenth century to as many as 30 - 50 by the 1200s.
Although the height of the Little Ice Age was still around the corner, some evidence suggests that temperatures were falling during the thirteenth century.
Archaeologists find that even the most isolated residences during the eleventh and twelfth centuries obtained some pottery, and probably food, from some distance away, while major ceremonial events were opportunities for sharing food and crafts.
But all of this appears to have changed thirteenth century.
Mars's surface gravity is only 40 percent that of Earth, so volcanoes rise roughly 2.5 times as high.
Scientists have no direct evidence for recent or ongoing eruptions, but if these volcanoes were active as recently as 100 million, years ago (an estimate of the time of last "eruption based on the extent of impact cratering on their slopes), some of them may still be at least intermittently active.
In the late thirteenth century, northern Italian cities such as Genoa, Florence, and Venice began an economic resurgence that made them into the most important economic centers of Europe.
By the seventeenth century, however, other European powers had taken over, as the Italian cities lost much of their economic might. 
In the fifteenth century there was little problem recruiting sailors to row the galleys (large ships propelled by oars): guilds (business associations) were required to provide rowers, and through a draft system free citizens served compulsorily when called for.
In the early sixteenth century the shortage of rowers was not serious because the demand for galleys was limited by a move to round ships (round-hulled ships with more cargo space), with required fewer rowers.
In ancient Roman times, the Italian peninsula had great forest of fir preferred for warships, but scarcity was apparent as early as the early fourteenth century.
The step from buying foreign timber to buying foreign ships was regarded as a short one, especially when complaints were heard in the latter sixteenth century that the standards and traditions of the Arsenale were running down.
Historian Frederic Lane observes that after the loss of ships in battle in the late sixteenth century, the shipbuilding industry no long had the capacity to recover that it had displayed at the start of the century. 
The Portuguese Vasco de Gama  s Voyaga around southern Afica to India  took place at the end of the fifteenth century, and by 1502 the trans- Abrabian caravan route had been cut off by political unrest.
Gradually, Venice's role as a storage and distribution center for spices and silk, dyes cotton, and gold decayed, and by the early seventeenth century Venice had lost its monopoly in markets such as France and southern Germany.
Venetian shipping had started to decline from about 1530-before the entry into the Mediterranean of large volumes of Dutch and British shipping-and was clearly outclassed by the end of the century.
Water temperature can fluctuate seasonally or even daily and changing level of rainfall can lead to fluctuations in the concentration of chemical in the water or even to period in which the aquatic habitat dries up.
From a plant's evolutionary view point, however, it was also a land of opportunity, free of competitors, and predator arid full of carbon dioxide and sunlight (the raw materials for photosynthesis, which are present in far higher concentrations in air than in water).
For years historians have sought to identify crucial elements in the eighteenth-century rise in industry, technology, and economic power Known as the Industrial Revolution, and many give prominence to the problem of energy.
Until the eighteenth century, people relied on energy derived from plants as well as animal and human muscle to provide power Increased efficiency in the use of water and wind helped with such tasks as pumping, milling, or sailing.
However, by the eighteenth century, Great Britain in particular was experiencing an energy shortage.
The earliest, that of Eridu, about 4500 B.C.E., and Uruk, a thousand years later, center on impressive temple complexes built of mud brick.
the political and economic life of the cities was centered on their temples, but it now seems probable that the cities had secular rulers from earliest times.
Two thousand logograms have been recorded from these early centuries of writing.
A large part of that increase took place in Uruk itself, which became a real urban center surrounded by a set of secondary settlements.
But Uruk  s dominant size in the entire region, far surpassing that of other settlements, indicates that it was a regional center and a true city.
But a small segment of the urban society started to specialize in nonagricultural tasks as a result of the city  s role as a regional center.
Of importance is the fact that it was produced rapidly in large amounts, most likely by specialists in a central location. 
Certain images depict groups of people, most likely women, involved in weaving textiles, an activity we know from later third-millennium texts to have been vital in the economy and to have been centrally administered.
It contained a number of channels lined by a sequence of holes, about 50 centimeters deep, all showing burn marks and filled with ashes.
This was a small cylinder, usually no more than 3 centimeters high and 2 centimeters in diameter, of shell, bone, faience ( a glassy type of stoneware), or various types of stones, on which a scene was carved into the surface.
The most recent island, Hawaii, would be at the end of the chain and is now over the volcanic source.
Wilson  s analysis of these data is now a central part of plate tectonics.
However, because the ocean basins really are short-lived features on geologic times scales, reconstructing the world  s geography by backtracking along the hot-spot trail works only for the last 5 percent or so of geologic time.
Nearly 50 percent of all groundwater is stored in the upper 1,000 meters of Earth.
This pore space is known as porosity and is expressed as a percentage of the total rock volume.
As recently as 6000 B.C., the southern frontier of the desert was far to the north of where it is now, while semiarid grassland and shallow freshwater lakes covered much of what are now arid plains.
Buck rubs also have a scent produced by glands in the foreheads of deer that is transferred to the tree when the rub is made.
This forehead rubbing behavior coincides with a high level of glandular activity in the modified scent glands found on the foreheads of male deer; the glandular activity causes the forehead pelage (hairy covering) of adult males to be distinctly darker than in females or younger males.
First, the chemicals deposited on the rub provide information on the individual identity of an animal; no two mammals produce the same scent.
It is made up entirely of broken oil amphorae, mainly of the second and third centuries A.D.
The device appears to have evolved no later than the fifth century B.C., perhaps independently in different regions of the Middle and Far East. 
The earliest waterpower mills were probably vertical-axis mills for grinding corn, known as Norse or Greek mills, which seem to have appeared during the first or second century B.C.
in the Middle East and a few centuries later in Scandinavia.
In the following centuries, increasingly sophisticated waterpower mills were built throughout the Roman Empire and beyond its boundaries in the Middle East and northern Europe.
The first documented English mill was in the eighth century, but three centuries later about 5,000 were recorded, suggesting that every settlement of any size had its mill.
Raising water and grinding corn were by no means the only uses of the waterpower mill, and during the following centuries, the applications of waterpower kept pace with the developing technologies of mining, iron working, paper making, and the wool and cotton industries.
Water was the main source of mechanical power, and by the end of the seventeenth century, England alone is thought to have had some 20,000 working mills.
A century later the picture was completely different: by then, the world had an electric industry, and a quarter of its generating capacity was water powered.
The growth of the electric-power industry was the result of a remarkable series of scientific discoveries and developments in electrotechnology during the nineteenth century, but significant changes in what we might now call hydro (water) technology also played their part.
Half a century of development was needed before Faraday's discoveries in electricity were translated into full-scale power stations.
From this primitive start, the electric industry grew during the final 20 years of the nineteenth century at a rate seldom if ever exceeded by any technology.
A heated debate has enlivened recent studies of evolution.
By the early twentieth century, the question about the rate of evolution had been answered in favor of gradualism to most biologists   satisfaction.
The punctuated equilibrium hypothesis attempts to explain a curious feature of the fossil record    one that has been familiar to paleontologists for more than a century but has usually been ignored.
A convincing 50-million-year sequence of modern horse ancestors    each slightly larger, with more complex teeth, a longer face, and a more prominent central toe    seemed to provide strong support for Darwin  s contention that species evolve gradually.
Although church ritual hand sustained an interest in timekeeping throughout the centuries of urban collapse that followed the fall of Rome, church time was nature  s time.
The Catholic Church resisted, not coming over to the new hours for about a century.
For example, in the 1800s a monstrous earthquake changed the course of the Mississippi River, a large river flowing in the central part of the United States of America.
The most recent comprehensive evaluation of early intervention programs suggests that, taken as a group, preschools programs can provide significant benefits, and that government funds invested early in life may ultimately lead to a reduction in future costs.
For example, savanna soils, like many rain forest soils, are typically oxisols(dominated by certain oxide minerals) and ultisols(soils containing no calcium carbonate), with a high acidity and notably low concentrations of such minerals as phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, and potassium, while aluminum levels are high.
In the late nineteenth century, political and social changes were occurring rapidly in Siam (now Thailand).
The old ruling families were being displaced by an evolving centralized government.
There were still forests closely surrounding Bangkok into the last half of the nineteenth century, and even at century  s end there were wild elephants and tigers roaming the countryside only twenty or thirty miles away.
The average annual volume of rice exported from Siam grew from under 60 million kilograms per year in the late 1850s to more than 660 million kilograms per year at the turn of the century; and over the same period the average price per kilogram doubled.
They were relatively freer than they had been half a century earlier.
By the early twentieth century, as government modernization in a sense caught up with what had been happening in the countryside since the 1870s, the government bureaucracy intruded more and more into village life.
They concentrated their studies on a thirteen-hectare tract of tropical dry forest that contained numerous nests of nine species of stingless bees.
With the increase in population and the development of centralized authority came the emergence of the cities.
While some of these urban centers were identified with a particular economic function, such as proximity to gold or iron deposits or a strategic location on a major trade route, others served primarily as administrative centers or the site of temples for the official cult or other ritual observances.
Before the railroad reached Tennessee, the state produced about 25,000 bushels (or 640 tons) of wheat, which sold for less than 50 cents a bushel.
Overall, about 38 percent of the families of marine animals were lost, with percentages much higher in some groups Ammonoid mollusks went from being very diverse and abundant to being extinct.
At locations around the globe, geologists had found an unusually high concentration of iridium in the layer of sedimentary rocks that was formed about 65 million years ago.
Most scientist came to accept the meteorite theory after evidence came to light that a circular formation, 180 kilometers in diameter in diameter and centered on the north coast of the Yucatan Peninsula, was created by a meteorite impact about 65 million years ago.
The mosque of Marrakech in Morocco is known as the Kutubiyya, or Booksellers   Mosque, after the adjacent market.
Papermaking had been introduced to the Islamic lands from China in the eighth century.
Papermaking spread quickly to Egypt---and eventually to Sicily and Spain---but it was several centuries before paper supplanted parchment for copies of the Koran, probably because of the conservative nature of religious art and its practitioners.
At first, paper was made in relatively small sheets that were pasted together, but by the beginning of the fourteenth century, very large sheets---as much as a meter across---were available.
By the eighteenth century, Britain was experiencing a severe shortage of energy.
Extrafloral nectaries at the base of each sepal attract several kinds of insects, but 96 percent of them are ants, several different species of them.
Similar applications of this concept were to be used again and again in later centuries to estimate the ages of rock formations and, in particular, of layers of sediment that had compacted and cemented to form sedimentary rocks.
It was not until the seventeenth century that attempts were made again to understand clues to Earth's history through the rock record.
Typical numbers produced at the turn of the twentieth century were 100 million to 400 million years.
Two physicists during the nineteenth century both came up with ages for the Sun based on the Sun's energy coming from gravitational contraction.
It was the discovery of radioactivity at the end of the nineteenth century that opened the door to determining both the Sun  s energy source and the age of Earth.
Another suggested reason is the change in nutrient level over the year, with differing concentrations favoring different phytoplankton species.
While this factor may also contribute, observations suggest that phytoplankton populations rise and fall much more quickly than nutrient concentrations change.
Although each cell secretes a minute amount of toxin, the massive dinoflagellate numbers cause the toxin to reach concentrations that kill many creatures.
This toxin can be concentrated in such filter-feeding organisms as clams and mussels, rendering them toxic to humans.
Under favorable conditions, a million or more of these tiny, single-celled plants can inhabit each cubic centimeter of soil.
These single-celled organisms are the most numerous representatives of the animal kingdom, and, like bacteria, a million or more can sometimes inhabit each cubic centimeter of soil.
In the first decade of the nineteenth century, a French naturalist named Francois Peron had sailed around the world measuring the temperature of the ocean.
The central implication of all these misconceptions was that nothing could live in the abyss (deep), just as Forbes  s observations seemed to indicate.
Originally moths were uniformly pale gray or whitish in color; dark-colored (melanic) individuals were rare and made up less than 2 percent of the population.
By 1961 it constituted over 90 percent of the population in parts of Michigan.
In the nonindustrial area of Dorset, he recaptured 14 6 percent of the pale forms but only 4 7 percent of the dark forms.
In the industrial area of Birmingham, the situation was reversed: 13 percent of pale forms but 27.5 percent of dark forms were recaptured.
More recent data, however, provide additional support for Kettleweir  s ideas about natural selection.
Before about 1975, 90 percent of the moths were dark, but since then there has been a steep decline in melanic forms, and in 1989 only 29.6 percent of the moths caught were melanic.
The mean concentration of sulphur dioxide pollution fell from about 300 micrograms per cubic meter in 1970 to less than 50 micrograms per cubic meter in 1975 and has remained fairly constant since then If the spread of the light-colored form of the moth continues at the same speed as the melanic form spread in the last century, soon the melanic form will again be only an occasional resident of the Liverpool area.
Anaximander, observing the motions of the heavens around the polestar, was probably the first of the Greek philosophers to picture the sky as sphere completely surrounding Earth--an idea that, elaborated upon later, would prevail until the advent of the Scientific Revolution in the seventeenth century. 
At the end of the nineteenth century, there were basically two kinds of buildings in the United States.
Before microscopes were first used in the seventeenth century, no one knew that living organisms were composed of cells.
From the year 1665, when English microscopist Robert Hooke discovered cells, until the middle of the twentieth century, biologists had only light microscopes for viewing cells.
Farming in Kansas and eastern Colorado (central and western United States) proceeded rapidly in the 1870s and 1880s?
In the eighteenth century, when the wolfs range included almost all of North America, raccoons apparently were abundant only in the deciduous forests of the East, Gulf Coast, and Great Lakes regions, though they also extended into the wooded bottomlands of the Midwest  s major rivers.
Now used in agriculture, there are approximately 109 million acres of transgenic crops grown worldwide, 68 percent of which are in the United States.
For example, a 21 percent reduction in the use of insecticide has been reported on Bt cotton (transgenic cotton that produces Bt toxin).
Forest fires have recently increased in intensity and extent in some forest types throughout the western United States.
This recent increase in fires has resulted partly from climate change (the recent trend toward hot, dry summers) and partly from human activities, for complicated reasons that foresters came increasingly to understand about 30 years ago but whose relative importance is still debated.
For a few decades the amount of land burnt annually decreased by 80 percent.
However, loggers concentrated on removing those big, old, valuable, fire-resistant ponderosa pines, while fire suppression for decades let the understory fill up with Douglas fir saplings that would in turn become valuable when full-grown.
Foresters now identify the biggest problem in managing Western forests as what to do with those increased fuel loads that built up during the previous half century of effective fire suppression.
The strength of the Athenian aristocracy was further weakened during the rest of the century by the rise of a type of government known as a tyranny, which is a form of interim rule by a popular strongman (not rule by a ruthless dictator as the modem use of the term suggests to us).
The Peisistratids, as the succession of tyrants were called (after the founder of the dynasty, Peisistratos), strengthened Athenian central administration at the expense of the aristocracy by appointing judges throughout the region, producing Athens' first national coinage, and adding and embellishing festivals that tended to focus attention on Athens rather than on local villages of the surrounding region.
By the end of the century, the time was ripe for more change: the tyrants were driven out, and in 508 B.C.
Over the next two centuries the implications of Cleisthenes* reforms were fully exploited.
During the fifth century B.C.
In the next century, however, it was the mature assembly that took on decision-making responsibility.
Recently it has been shown that some North American frog and toad speeds can survive up to five days with a body temperature of -6*0 with approximately one-third of their body fluids frozen.
In many respects, such as education, occupation, and leisure activities, their life is like that of other groups that contribute to the diverse social fabric of North American culture in the twenty-first century.
Studies of how stars evolve suggest that the early Sun was only about 70 percent as luminous as it is now, so the temperature in Venus   early atmosphere must have been quite a bit lower.
Thus, argued Rathje, long-distance trade networks were organized through local ceremonial centers and their leaders.
Authorities at both ends might regulate the profits fed back to the source, providing the incentive for further transactions.
Only a little heating will soften the ice and get the process started, allowing the rock and metal to sink to the center and the slushy ice to float to the surface.
About one-quarter of its surface seems to be as old and heavily cratered; the rest formed more recently, as we can tell by the sparse covering of impact craters as well as the relative freshness of the craters.
Towns and cities were established not only as garrisons (military posts) but as centers for the diffusion of Greek language, literature, and thought, particularly through libraries, as at Antioch (in modern Turkey) and the most famous of all, at Alexandria in Egypt, which would be the finest in the world for the next thousand years.
Sampling on the continental shelves and along the base of the continental slopes has shown that fine muds beneath the seafloor contain up to 8 percent organic matter.
Hence, because oil and water do not mix, water remains fastened to the quartz or carbonate grains, while oil occupies the central parts of the larger openings in the porous sandstone or limestone.
It is estimated that no more than 0.1 percent of all the organic matter originally buried in a sediment is eventually trapped in an oil pool.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the highest ratio of oil and gas pools to volume of sediment is found in rock no older than 2.5 million years  young enough so that little of the petroleum has leaked away  and that nearly 60 percent of all oil and gas discovered so far has been found in strata that formed in the last 65 million years This does not mean that older rocks produced less petroleum; it simply means that oil in older rocks has had a longer time in which to leak away.
Guesses involve the use of accumulated experience from a century of drilling.
This then causes the warm water in the western Pacific to flow eastward, increasing sea-surface temperatures in the central and eastern Pacific.
Scientists try to document as many past El Nino events as possible by piecing together bits of historical evidence, such as sea-surface temperature records, daily observations of atmospheric pressure and rainfall, fisheries   records from South America, and the writings of Spanish colonists dating back to the fifteenth century.
Records indicate that during the sixteenth century, an El Nino occurred on average every six years.
The fins were thick, fleshy, and quite sturdy, with a median axis of bone down the center.
They could have been used as feeble locomotor devices on land, perhaps good enough to allow a fish to flop its way from one pool of water that was almost dry to an adjacent pond that had enough water and oxygen for survival.
This technique was known as long ago as the fifth century B.C.
Aristotle also experimented with it in the fourth century B.C., and Leonardo da Vinci described it in his notebooks in 1490.
In recent times the British artist David Hockney has published his investigations into the secret use of the camera obscura, claiming that for up to 400 years, many of Western art  s great masters probably used the device to produce almost photographically realistic details in their paintings.
In contrast to other productivity in the ocean, which is confined to various species of algae and bacteria dependent on nutrient concentrations in the water column, seagrasses are rooted plants that absorb nutrients from the sediment or substrate.
The argument seemed to be at a standstill until a number of recent studies resulted in a spectacular suite of new finds.
Since wind-pollinated flowers have no need to attract insects or other animals, they have dispensed with bright petals, nectar, and scent.
Despite these adaptations, much of the pollen fails to leave the top branches, and only between 0.5 percent and 40 percent gets more than 100 meters away from the parent.
Even fishes can become successful filter-feeders in some circumstances Although the vast majority of marine fishes are carnivores, in near-surface regions of high productivity the concentrations of larger phytoplankton (the plant component of plankton) are sufficient to support huge populations of filter-feeding sardines and anchovies.
Even though mean levels may mask much higher local concentrations, it is still the case that many deep-sea animals are exposed to conditions in which a normal filter-feeder would starve
Another solution for such animals is to forage in particular layers of water where the particles may be more concentrated.
The league grew by the end of the fourteenth century to include about 200 cities from Holland to Poland.
Hanseatic merchants established foreign trading centers, the most famous of which was the London Steelyard, a walled community with warehouses, offices, a church, and residential quarters for company representatives.
By the late thirteenth century, Hanseatic merchants had developed an important business technique, the business register.
One remarkable aspect of this change was that the commercial classes constituted a small part of the total population  never more than 10 percent.
Wealth could be taxed, and through taxation, kings could create strong and centralized states.
The slow but steady transformation of European society from almost completely rural and isolated to relatively more urban constituted the greatest effect of the commercial revolution that began in the eleventh century.
Even so, merchants and business people did not run medieval communities, except in central and northern Italy and in the county of Flanders.
The commercial changes of the eleventh through fourteenth centuries did however, lay the economic foundation for the development of urban life and culture.
After the Roman Empire  s conquest of Britain in the first century A.D., the presence of administrators, merchants, and troops on British soil, along with the natural flow of ideas and goods from the rest of the empire, had an enormous influence on life in the British Isles.
The Fishbourne villa, built in the third quarter of the first century A.D., probably for the native client king Cogidubnus, amply illustrates his Roman pretensions.
The magnificent temple built beside the sacred spring at Bath was constructed only about twenty years after the conquest.
On occasion large groups amassed for war or religious festivals, but society remained centered on small communities.
Supremacy was accentuated by the unyielding straight lines of both individual buildings and planned settlements since these too provided a marked contrast with the natural curvilinear shapes dominant in the native realm.
They do best when the relative humidity in their nest is above 96 percent and the temperature is fairly high, an optimum of about 79  F for temperate zone species and about 86  F for tropical species.
The termites saturate the atmosphere of the nest, bringing it to about 100 percent relative humidity, by carrying water up from the soil.
The interior consists of a large central core in which the fungus is grown, below it is   cellar   of empty space, above it is an   attic   of empty space, and within the ridges on the outer wall of the nest, there are many small tunnels that connect the cellar and the attic.
An atoll is a reef in the form of a ring or horseshoe with a lagoon in the center.
Darwin s theory was that the succession from one coral reef type to another could be achieved by the upward growth of coral from a sinking platform, and that there would be a progression from a fringing reef, through the barrier reef stage until, with the disappearance through subsidence (sinking) of the central island, only a reef-enclosed lagoon or atoll would survive.
However, the massive increase in population that in Europe was at first attributed to industrialization starting in the eighteenth century occurred also and at the same period in China, even though there was no comparable industrialization.
The transition between the Ming and Qing dynasties (the seventeenth century) may have seen a decline, but from 1741 to 1851 the annual figures rose steadily and spectacularly, perhaps beginning with 143 million and ending with 432 million.
If, with greater caution, we assume lower totals in the early eighteenth century and only 400 million in 1850, we still face a startling fact: something like a doubling of the vast Chinese population in the century before Western contact, foreign trade, and industrialization could have had much effect.
Among these is the almost complete internal peace maintained under Manchu rule during the eighteenth century.
Confronted with a multitude of unreliable figures, economists have compared the population records with the aggregate data for cultivated land area and grain production in the six centuries since 1368.
Assuming that China  s population in 1400 was about 80 million, the economist Dwight Perkins concludes that its growth to 700 million or more in the 1960s was made possible by a steady increase in the grain supply, which evidently grew five or six times between 1400 and 1800 and rose another 50 percent between 1800 and 1965.
This increase of food supply was due perhaps half to the increase of cultivated area, particularly by migration and settlement in the central and western provinces, and half to greater productivity  the farmers   success in raising more crops per unit of land.
This region of city warmth, known as the urban heat island, can influence the concentration of air pollution.
This warming, therefore, must be accounted for in interpreting climate change over the past century.
Water vapor condenses onto these particles when the relative humidity is as low as 70 percent, forming haze that greatly reduces visibility.
If there are major industrial areas along the outskirts, pollutants are carried into the heat of town, where they tend to concentrate.
These have changed constantly through time, even in relatively recent periods, as can be seen from the Neolithic stone circle of Er Lannic, in Brittany, France (once inland but now half submerged on an island) or medieval villages in east Yorkshire, England, that have tumbled into the sea in the last few centuries as the North Sea gnaws its way westward and erodes the cliffs.
Even in England, where technology lagged far behind, a sheet of paper, or eight octavo pages, cost only a penny by the fifteenth century. 
Europe in the fifteenth century was a place where intermediate technology-that is, workshops with skilled craftspeople-was well established and spreading fast, especially in Germany and Italy.
Presses sprang up in several German cities, and by 1470, Nuremberg, Germany had established itself as the center of the international publishing trade, printing books from 24 presses and distributing them at trade fairs all over western and central Europe.
The Industrial Revolution had several roots, one of which was a commercial revolution that, beginning as far back as the sixteenth century, accompanied Europe  s expansion overseas.
Ideas about agricultural reform developed first in Holland, where as early as the mid-seventeenth century, such modern methods as crop rotation, heavy fertilization, and diversification were all in use.
As early as the seventeenth century the Dutch were helping them drain marshes and fens where, with the help of advanced techniques, they grew new crops.
By the mid-eighteenth century new agricultural methods as well as selective breeding of livestock had caught on throughout the country.
In the sixteenth century enclosures were usually used for creating sheep pastures, but by the eighteenth century new farming techniques made it advantageous for large landowners to seek enclosures in order to improve agricultural production.
