It may have developed independently, but many scholars believe that the spread of agriculture and iron throughout Africa linked it to the major centers of the Near East and Mediterranean world.
It had over 2,000 apartment complexes, a great market, a large number of industrial workshops, an administrative center, a number of massive religious edifices, and a regular grid pattern of streets and buildings.
Prior to 200 B.C., a number of relatively small centers coexisted in and near the Valley of Mexico.
Around this time, the largest of these centers, Cuicuilco, was seriously affected by a volcanic eruption, with much of its agricultural land covered by lava.
The archaeological evidence clearly indicates, though, that Teotihuac  n was the center that did arise as the predominant force in the area by the first century A.D.
General concern about misleading tactics that advertisers employ is centered on the use of exaggeration.
Peripheral peoples therefore had a great advantage in their dealings with the center, making government authority insecure and anxious.
When these ice pellets fall, some of them strike much smaller ice crystals in the center of the cloud.
The temperature at the center of the cloud is about -15   or lower.
The heavier negatively charged ice pellets are left to concentrate in the center.
This process explains why the top of the cloud becomes positively charged, while the center becomes negatively charged.
These settlements acted like small towns, becoming centers for the artisan and trading populations.
How did it come about that farming developed independently in a number of world centers (the Southeast Asian mainland, Southwest Asia, Central America, lowland and highland South America, and equatorial Africa) at more or less the same time?
The first is an automatic, metabolic system whose control is centered in the brain stem.
Its control center is based in the forebrain, and it regulates breathing for use in speech, singing, sighing, and so on.
In the late thirteenth century, northern Italian cities such as Genoa, Florence, and Venice began an economic resurgence that made them into the most important economic centers of Europe.
Gradually, Venice's role as a storage and distribution center for spices and silk, dyes cotton, and gold decayed, and by the early seventeenth century Venice had lost its monopoly in markets such as France and southern Germany.
The earliest, that of Eridu, about 4500 B.C.E., and Uruk, a thousand years later, center on impressive temple complexes built of mud brick.
the political and economic life of the cities was centered on their temples, but it now seems probable that the cities had secular rulers from earliest times.
A large part of that increase took place in Uruk itself, which became a real urban center surrounded by a set of secondary settlements.
But Uruk  s dominant size in the entire region, far surpassing that of other settlements, indicates that it was a regional center and a true city.
But a small segment of the urban society started to specialize in nonagricultural tasks as a result of the city  s role as a regional center.
While some of these urban centers were identified with a particular economic function, such as proximity to gold or iron deposits or a strategic location on a major trade route, others served primarily as administrative centers or the site of temples for the official cult or other ritual observances.
Most scientist came to accept the meteorite theory after evidence came to light that a circular formation, 180 kilometers in diameter in diameter and centered on the north coast of the Yucatan Peninsula, was created by a meteorite impact about 65 million years ago.
Thus, argued Rathje, long-distance trade networks were organized through local ceremonial centers and their leaders.
Only a little heating will soften the ice and get the process started, allowing the rock and metal to sink to the center and the slushy ice to float to the surface.
Towns and cities were established not only as garrisons (military posts) but as centers for the diffusion of Greek language, literature, and thought, particularly through libraries, as at Antioch (in modern Turkey) and the most famous of all, at Alexandria in Egypt, which would be the finest in the world for the next thousand years.
The fins were thick, fleshy, and quite sturdy, with a median axis of bone down the center.
Hanseatic merchants established foreign trading centers, the most famous of which was the London Steelyard, a walled community with warehouses, offices, a church, and residential quarters for company representatives.
On occasion large groups amassed for war or religious festivals, but society remained centered on small communities.
An atoll is a reef in the form of a ring or horseshoe with a lagoon in the center.
Presses sprang up in several German cities, and by 1470, Nuremberg, Germany had established itself as the center of the international publishing trade, printing books from 24 presses and distributing them at trade fairs all over western and central Europe.
