The legs were certainly functional both on land and at sea.
Because all Polynesians, Micronesians, and many Melanesians speak Austronesian languages and grow crops derived from Southeast Asia, all these peoples most certainly derived from that region and not the New World or elsewhere.
Inequalities of wealth and rank certainly exist, and have probably existed in most pastoralist societies, but except in periods of military conquest, they are normally too slight to generate the stable, hereditary hierarchies that are usually implied by the use of the term class.
The leatherback is certainly not the only animal with such an arrangement; gulls have a countercurrent exchange in their legs.
It is almost certainly doing something significant in adults as well as in fetuses.
Some of these were certainly brought from long distances, but demands were inevitably placed on the local area.
Some of the demand for the services and goods was no doubt fulfilled by people drawn from far afield, but some local people certainly became entwined in this new economy.
Although it is certainly true that the possession of hard parts enhances the prospect of preservation, organisms having soft tissues and organs are also occasionally preserved.
For the majority of lakes, certainly those surrounded by forests, input from overland flow is too small to have a noticeable effect.
Sharing and cooperation were almost certainly part of early Puebloan life, even for people living in largely independent single-household residences scattered across the landscape.
There is generally little doubt that fire is a significant factor in maintaining savanna, certainly in most regions.
Ants are probably the most frequent and certainly the most persistent defenders of plants.
Forbes  s azoic zone was entirely plausible at the time, and it was certainly far from the strangest idea that was then entertained about the deep sea.
Although area may contribute to biodiversity, it is certainly not the whole story; otherwise, large landmasses would always be richer in species.
But they are certainly not ants.
