As a person becomes more sophisticated, its conceptions of supernatural forces and causal relationships may change.
In order for the structure to achieve the size and strength necessary to meet its purpose, architecture employs methods of support that, because they are based on physical laws, have changed little since people first discovered them  even while building materials have changed dramatically.
Even development in architecture has been the result of major technological changes.
Enormous changes in materials and techniques of construction within the last few generations have made it possible to enclose space with much greater ease and speed and with a minimum of material.
Ecologists use the term   succession   to refer to the changes that happen in plant communities and ecosystems over time.
Pioneer and successional plant communities are said to change over periods from 1 to 500 years.
These changes  in plant numbers and the mix of species  are cumulative.
Climax communities themselves change but over periods of time greater than about 500 years.
An ecologist who studies a pond today may well find it relatively unchanged in a year  s time.
Stability can be defined as simply lack of change.
In that case, the climax community would be considered the most stable, since, by definition, it changes the least over time.
Even the kind of stability defined as simple lack of change is not always associated with maximum diversity.
David Douglas, Scottish botanical explorer of the 1830s, found a disturbing change in the animal life around the fort during the period between his first visit in 1825 and his final contact with the fort in 1832.
Wildlife zoologist Helmut Buechner(1953), in reviewing the nature of biotic changes in Washington through recorded time, says that "since the early 1940s, the state has had more deer than at any other time in its history, the winter population fluctuating around approximately 320,000 deer (mule and black-tailed deer), which will yield about 65,000 of either sex and any age annually for an indefinite period."
Why does the fossil record not document the series of evolutionary changes during the evolution of animals?
In Britain one of the most dramatic changes of the Industrial Revolution was the harnessing of power.
One involves physiological changes relevant to memory.
One question was related to evidence that the invertebrate fauna (animals without spines) of the Mediterranean had changed abruptly about 6 million years ago.
The salt and gypsum, the faunal changes, and the unusual gravel provided abundant evidence that the Mediterranean was once a desert.
This technological shift cause profound changes in the complexity of African societies.
Paleontologists have argued for a long time that the demise of the dinosaurs was caused by climatic alterations associated with slow changes in the positions of continents and seas resulting from plate tectonics.
Perhaps dinosaurs could not tolerate these extreme temperature changes and became extinct.
Critics also point out that the shallow seaways had retreated from and advanced on the continents numerous times during the Mesozoic, so why did the dinosaurs survive the climatic changes associated with the earlier fluctuations but not with this one?
Although initially appealing, the hypothesis of a simple climatic change related to sea levels is insufficient to explain all the data.
We know that over the past millennia the climate has undergone major changes without any significant human intervention.
We need therefore to know how much the climate can vary of its own accord in order to interpret with confidence the extent to which recent changes are natural as opposed to being the result of human activities.
Over long periods of time, substances whose physical and chemical properties change with the ambient climate at the time can be deposited in a systematic way to provide a continuous record of changes in those properties overtime, sometimes for hundreds or thousands of years.
Generally, the layering occurs on an annual basis, hence the observed changes in the records can be dated.
Information on temperature, rainfall, and other aspects of the climate that can be inferred from the systematic changes in properties is usually referred to as proxy data.
What the proxy records make abundantly clear is that there have been significant natural changes in the climate over timescales longer than a few thousand years.
To the extent that the coverage of the global climate from these records can provide a measure of its true variability, it should at least indicate how all the natural causes of climate change have combined.
These include the chaotic fluctuations of the atmosphere, the slower but equally erratic behavior of the oceans, changes in the land surfaces, and the extent of ice and snow.
By the middle of the sixteenth century, financiers and traders commonly accepted bills of exchange in place of gold or silver for other goods.
Bills of exchange, which had their origins in medieval Italy, were promissory notes (written promises to pay a specified amount of money by a certain date) that could be sold to third parties.
At mid-century, an Antwerp financier only slightly exaggerated when he claimed,   0ne can no more trade without bills of exchange than sail without water."
An Amsterdam merchant purchasing soap from a merchant in Marseille could go to an exchanger and pay the exchanger the equivalent sum in guilders, the Dutch currency.
The exchanger would then send a bill of exchange to a colleague in Marseille, authorizing the colleague to pay the Marseille merchant in the merchant's own currency after the actual exchange of goods had taken place.
Bills of exchange contributed to the development of banks, as exchangers began to provide loans.
When such statues are viewed in isolation, out of their original context and without knowledge of their function, it is easy to criticize them for their rigid attitudes that remained unchanged for three thousand years.
To test this idea, he blocked their view of the Sun and used mirrors to change its apparent position.
However, its position with respect to the surroundings could be changed by revolving either the inner cage containing the birds or the outer walls, which served as the background.
But when the dome was rotated, the birds changed their direction to match the artificial sky.
The studies are complicated by the fact that the data are sometimes contradictory and the mechanisms apparently change from time to time.
Seeing and talking with one another in close physical proximity makes possible a subtle exchange of ideas and feelings.
Indeed, stability of the biological clock's period is one of its major features, even when the organism's environment is subjected to considerable changes in factors, such as temperature, that would be expected to affect biological activity strongly.
Typically, the animal's daily internally generated cycle of activity continues without change.
Similarly, changes in the infant's general level of motor activity   turning the head, blinking the eyes, crying, and so forth    have been used by researchers as visual indicators of the infant's perceptual abilities.
The third, and most potent, limitation is that it is not possible to be certain that the infant's response was due to the stimulus presented or to a change from no stimulus to a stimulus.
As stimuli were presented, changes in the infant's sucking behavior were recorded.
The leatherback accomplishes this by arranging the blood vessels in the base of its flipper into a countercurrent exchange system.
In a countercurrent exchange system, the blood vessels carrying cooled blood from the flippers run close enough to the blood vessels carrying warm blood from the body to pick up some heat from the warmer blood vessels; thus, the heat is transferred from the outgoing to the ingoing vessels before it reaches the flipper itself.
The leatherback is certainly not the only animal with such an arrangement; gulls have a countercurrent exchange in their legs.
Hatchlings are simply too small to conserve body heat, even with insulation and countercurrent exchange systems.
There are several hypotheses, including warming or cooling of Earth, changes in seasonal fluctuations or ocean currents, and changing positions of the continents.
Biological hypotheses include ecological changes brought about by the evolution of cooperation between insects and flowering plants or of bottom-feeding predators in the oceans.
This would change the geography of the planet considerably.
Because there is no space in the periodic table between these two elements, Mendeleyev suggested that the atomic mass of indium be changed to a completely different value, where it would fill an empty space between cadmium and tin.
Many species of amphibians (frogs and toads) and reptiles (lizards and snakes) are able to change their color patterns to camouflage themselves.
Some chameleon species can change from a rather dull appearance to a full riot of carnival colors in seconds.
When researchers measured the heart rate, muscle tension and skin conductance of people before, during and after yawning, they did detect some changes in skin conductance following yawning, indicating a slight increase in physiological activity.
However, similar changes occurred when the subjects were asked simply to open their mouths or to breathe deeply.
The empirical evidence, such as it is, suggests an altogether different function for yawning  namely, that yawning prepares us for a change in activity level.
Their yawning seems to have nothing to do with sleepiness or boredom  quite the reverse  but it does precede a change in activity level.
Economic exchange was clearly very important as the Roman army brought with it very substantial spending power.
Although goods could be requisitioned, they were usually paid for, and this probably stimulated changes in the local economy.
They change relatively little through time unless the environment itself changes.
Different ratios in the shells preserved in various layers of sediment reveal the temperature changes in the oceans during the Pleistocene epoch.
They could trace the growth and shrinkage of continental glaciers, even in parts of the ocean where there may have been no great change in temperature  around the equator, for example.
The oxygen isotope ratio of the ocean changes as a great deal of water is withdrawn from it by evaporation and is precipitated as snow to form glacial ice.
In American society, however, the class structure was less rigid; some people changed occupations easily and believed it was their duty to improve their social and economic position.
The climatic changes in southwestern Asia were more subtle, in that they involved shifts in mountain snow lines, rainfall patterns, and vegetation cover.
However, these same cycles of change had momentous impacts on the sparse human populations of the region.
Thanks to new environmental and archaeological discoveries, we now know something about this remarkable change in local life.
This considerable volume of intercommunity exchange brought a degree of social complexity in its wake.
The empty shell of a snail or clam may be left behind, and if it is sufficiently durable and resistant to dissolution, it may remain basically unchanged for a long period of time.
Although aragonite has the same composition as the more familiar mineral known as calcite, it has a different crystal form, is relatively unstable, and in time changes to the more stable calcite.
Petrifaction may also involve a simultaneous exchange of the original substance of a dead plant or animal with mineral matter of a different composition.
Climatic changes at the end of the glacial period 13,000 years ago have been proposed to account for the emergence of farming.
Later on, it became very difficult to change because of the significant expansion of these populations.
Earth had experienced previous periods of climatic change, and yet agriculture had not been developed.
In particular, and quite logically, the art of painting was forever changed, though not always in the ways one might have expected.
This changed in the early part of the seventeenth century when horticulture became accepted as an agricultural sector.
Certain features of these engravings lead to the conclusion that they are of great age  geological changes had clearly happened after the designs had been made and local Aboriginal informants, when first questioned about them, seemed to know nothing of their origins.
Then exchanges with the atmosphere are calculated by finding the difference between the gains from rain, as measured (rather roughly) by rain gauges, and the losses by evaporation, measured with models that correct for the other sources of water loss.
Changes in lake level not explained by river flows plus exchanges with the atmosphere must be due to the net difference between what seeps into the lake from the groundwater and what leaks into the groundwater.
Climatic change (the result of global warming?)
Of all the physiological differences in human sleep compared with wakefulness that have been discovered in the last decade, changes in respiratory control are most dramatic.
Not only are there differences in the level of the functioning of respiratory systems, there are even changes in how they function.
However, there are many other changes that affect respiration when asleep.
During NREM (the phase of sleep in which there is no rapid eye movement) breathing becomes deeper and more regular, but there is also a decrease in the breathing rate, resulting in less air being exchanged overall.
Two things result from these changes in breathing control that occur during sleep.
But that is not all that changes.
During all phases of sleep, several changes in the air passages have been observed.
It takes twice as much effort to breathe during sleep because of greater resistance to airflow in the airways and changes in the efficiency of the muscles used for breathing.
Also there is a regular cycle of change in resistance between the two sides of the nose.
Coupled with these factors is the loss of the complex interactions among the muscles that can change the route of airflow from nose to mouth.
Additional breathing changes occur during REM sleep that are even more dramatic than the changes that occur during NREM.
The amount of air exchanged is even lower in REM than NREM because, although breathing is more rapid in REM, it is also more irregular, with brief episodes of shallow breathing or absence of breathing.
In the Mesa Verde area of the ancient North American Southwest, living patterns changed in the thirteenth century, with large numbers of people moving into large communal dwellings called pueblos, often constructed at the edges of canyons, especially on the sides of cliffs.
The environmental changes associated with this transition are not fully understood, but people living closest to the San Juan Mountains, to the northeast of Mesa Verde, were affected first.
But all of this appears to have changed thirteenth century.
This decline can be seen clearly in the changes that affected Venetian shipping and trade.
They include roots or root like structures, a waxy cuticle that covers the surfaces of leaves and stems and limits the evaporation of water, and pores called stomata in leaves and stems that allow gas exchange but close when water is scarce, thus reducing water loss.
Its numbers fall tenfold to thirty in a typical cycle, and a hundredfold change can occur.
The Sahara is a highly diverse, albeit dry, region that has undergone major climatic changes since 10,000 B.C.
The areas that are now desert were, like all arid regions, very susceptible to cycles of higher and lower levels of rainfall, resulting in major, sudden changes in distributions of plants and animals.
But soon they also gained genetic control of the animals, which led to rapid physical changes in the herd.
Competing species also tend to change their ranges so that their territories no longer overlap.
The growth of the electric-power industry was the result of a remarkable series of scientific discoveries and developments in electrotechnology during the nineteenth century, but significant changes in what we might now call hydro (water) technology also played their part.
Darwin  s original thesis and the viewpoint supported by evolutionary gradualists, is that species change continuously but slowly and in small increments.
Such changes are all but invisible over the short time scale of modern observations, and, it is argued, they are usually obscured by innumerable gaps in the imperfect fossil record.
Gradualism, with its stress on the slow pace of change, is a comforting position, repeated over and over again in generations of textbooks.
These episodes of rapid evolution are separated by relatively long static spans during which a species may hardly change at all.
Many species appear to remain unchanged in the fossil record for millions of years    a situation that seems to be at odds with Darwin  s model of continuous change.
In most localities a given species of clam or coral persists essentially unchanged throughout a thick formation of rock, only to be replaced suddenly by a new and different species.
Horses evolved in discrete steps, each of which persisted almost unchanged for millions of years and was eventually replaced by a distinctive newer model.
If it seems difficult to conceive how major changes could occur rapidly, consider this: An alteration of a single gene in flies is enough to turn a normal fly with a single pair of wings into one that has two pairs of wings.
In that study, each of eight different trilobite species was observed to undergo a gradual change in the number of segments    typically an increase of one or two segments over the whole time interval.
Slow, continuous change may be the norm during periods of environmental stability, while rapid evolution of new species occurs during periods of environmental stress.
Physical separation between subpopulations promotes the formation of new species because once the members of one subpopulation can no longer mate with members of another subpopulation, they cannot exchange variant genes that arise in one of the subpopulations.
For example, in the 1800s a monstrous earthquake changed the course of the Mississippi River, a large river flowing in the central part of the United States of America.
The change separated populations of insects now living along opposite shore, completely cutting off gene flow between them.
Experiments suggest that if fire did not occur in savannas in the Americas, species composition would change significantly.
Colonization is one way in which plants can change the ecology of a site.
In the late nineteenth century, political and social changes were occurring rapidly in Siam (now Thailand).
Numerous changes accompanied these developments.
Evidence suggests that an important stimulus behind the rise of early civilizations was the development of settled agriculture, which unleashed a series of changes in the organization of human communities that culminated in the rise of large ancient empires.
This time was also marked by changes in many other types of organisms.
What caused these changes?
Nevertheless, climatic explanations for the K-T extinction are not really challenged by the ideas that dinosaurs may have been endothermic, because even endotherms can be affected by a significant change in the climate.
In some areas, small changes in climate or minor changes in plant characteristics may have further destabilized local economies.
This development resulted in a change in the social and economic equations that defined those societies.
In addition to the marked changes in abundance observed in phytoplankton over the course of a year, there is also a marked change in species composition.
This change in the dominant species from season to season is called seasonal succession, and it occurs in a wide variety of locations.
Considering that seasonal succession is most often and clearly seen in temperate seas, which have a marked change in temperature during a year, temperature has been suggested as a cause.
Furthermore, temperature changes rather slowly in seawater, and the replacement of dominant species often is much more rapid.
Another suggested reason is the change in nutrient level over the year, with differing concentrations favoring different phytoplankton species.
While this factor may also contribute, observations suggest that phytoplankton populations rise and fall much more quickly than nutrient concentrations change.
Yet another explanation is that species succession is a consequence of changes in seawater brought about by the phytoplankton living in it.
The bacteria that legumes host within their root nodules (small swellings on the root) change nitrogen gas from the atmosphere into nitrogen compounds that plants are able to metabolize, a process, known as nitrogen fixation, that makes the soil more fertile.
One of the most thoroughly analyzed examples of natural selection in operation is the change in color that has occurred in certain populations of the peppered moth, Biston betularia, in industrial regions of Europe during the past 100 years.
Vegetation was considerably altered by the Maori occupation of New Zealand, a change not easily explained by climate variation or other possible factors.
The story of moa species and their demise raises ecological issues on the vulnerability of species to human-caused changes- including altered vegetative cover of the landscape, change in the physical environment, and modification of the flora and fauna of a region by eliminating some species and introducing others.
This recent increase in fires has resulted partly from climate change (the recent trend toward hot, dry summers) and partly from human activities, for complicated reasons that foresters came increasingly to understand about 30 years ago but whose relative importance is still debated.
That happy situation began to change in the 1980s, due to the increasing frequency of large forest fires that were essentially impossible to extinguish unless rain and low winds combined to help.
One of the most important changes in Greece during the period from 800 B.C.
The first steps toward change were taken by Solon in 594 B.C., when he broke the aristocracy  s stranglehold on elected offices by establishing wear rather than birth as the basis of office holding, abolishing the economic obligations of ordinary Athenians to the aristocracy, and allowing the assembly (of which all citizens were equal members) to overrule the decisions of local courts in certain cases.
By the end of the century, the time was ripe for more change: the tyrants were driven out, and in 508 B.C.
Additionally, in many speeds the tolerance boundaries are flexible and can change as a result of acclimatization (long-term exposure to particular conditions).
The principal elements in behavioral thermoregulation are basking (heliothermy), heat exchange with substrates such as rock or earth (thigmothermy)  and diurnal and annual avoidance behaviors, which include moving to shelter during the day for cooling and hibernating or estivating (reducing activity during cold or hot weather, respectively).
It coexists with hochxo ("ugliness," or "evil," and "disorder") in a world where opposing forces of dynamism and stability create constant change.
Bartering was a basic trade mechanism for many thousands of years; often sporadic and usually based on notions of reciprocity, it involved the mutual exchange of commodities or objects between individuals or groups.
The change from redistribution to formal trade-often based on regulated commerce that perhaps involved fixed prices and even currency  was closely tied to growing political and social complexity and hence to the development of the state in the ancient world.
Interest in long distance trade brought about some cultural homogeneity from trade and gift exchange, and perhaps even led to piracy.
American archaeologist William Rathje developed a hypothesis that considered an explosion in long-distance exchange a fundamental cause of Mayan civilization in Mesoamerica.
Now that we know much more about ancient exchange and commerce, we know that, because no one aspect of trade was an overriding cause of cultural change or evolution in commercial practices, trade can never be looked on as a unifying factor or as a primary agent of ancient civilization.
Geographic isolation creates opportunities for new species to develop, but it does not necessarily lead to new species because speciation occurs only when the gene pool undergoes enough changes to establish reproductive barriers between the isolated population and its parent population.
The likelihood of allopatric speciation increases when a population is small as well as isolated, making it more likely than a large population to have its gene pool changed substantially.
Completely isolated on the island after migrating from the mainland, the founder population may have undergone significant changes in its gene pool and become a new species.
A complex sequence of chemical reactions is involved in converting the original solid organic matter to oil and gas, and additional chemical changes may occur in the oil and gas even after they have formed.
This change in the pressure gradient causes the trade winds to weaken or, in some cases, to reverse.
These fins eventually changed into short, stubby legs.
The principal changes for the earliest tetrapods were in the skeletal system  changes in the bones of the fins, the vertebral column, pelvic girdle, and pectoral girdle.
Most seagrass beds seem tolerant of considerable changes in salinity (salt levels) and can be found in brackish (somewhat salty) waters as well as in full- strength seawater.
Business procedures changed radically.
The individual traveling merchant who alone handled virtually all aspects of exchange evolved into an operation invoh/ing three separate types of merchants: the sedentary merchant who ran the "home office," financing and organizing the firm  s entire export-import trade; the carriers who transported goods by land and sea; and the company agents resident in cities abroad who, on the advice of the home office, looked after sales and procurements.
The growth of mutual trust among merchants facilitated the growth of sales on credit and led to new developments in finance, such as the bill of exchange, a device that made the long, slow, and very dangerous shipment of coins unnecessary.
These goods were exchanged for finished products, mainly cloth and salt, from western cities.
In the long run, the commercial revolution of the High Middle Ages (a d 1000-1300) brought about radical change in European society.
One remarkable aspect of this change was that the commercial classes constituted a small part of the total population  never more than 10 percent.
The commercial changes of the eleventh through fourteenth centuries did however, lay the economic foundation for the development of urban life and culture.
In fact, it is possible that the loss of a single important species could start a cascade of extinctions that might dramatically change an entire ecosystem.
This art had a major impact on the native peoples, and one of the most importance factors was a change in the scale of buildings.
In the Western experience, commerce provided the conditions that allowed industrialization to get started, which in turn led to growth in science, technology, industry, transport, communications, social change, and the like that we group under the broad term of   development.
This warming, therefore, must be accounted for in interpreting climate change over the past century.
These have changed constantly through time, even in relatively recent periods, as can be seen from the Neolithic stone circle of Er Lannic, in Brittany, France (once inland but now half submerged on an island) or medieval villages in east Yorkshire, England, that have tumbled into the sea in the last few centuries as the North Sea gnaws its way westward and erodes the cliffs.
Analysis of the shells themselves has confirmed the changes in marine topography, for it is only during the maximum phase that subtropical species of mollusc are present, indicating a higher water temperature.
