This unprecedented development of a finite groundwater resource with an almost negligible natural recharge rate  that is, virtually no natural water source to replenish the water supply  has caused water tables in the region to fall drastically.
Nor does the hypothesis that infantile amnesia reflects repression  or holding back  of sexually charged episodes explain the phenomenon.
Today, river discharges are increasingly controlled by human intervention, creating a need for international river-basin agreements.
But only a small fraction of groundwater enters the hydrological cycle  feeding the flows of streams, maintaining lake levels, and being recharged (or refilled) through surface flows and rainwater.
Most limestone and sandstone aquifers are deep and extensive but may contain groundwaters that are not being recharged.
Most shallow aquifers in sand and gravel deposits produce lower yields, but they can be rapidly recharged.
These aquifers became saturated more than 10,000 years ago and are no longer being recharged.
Lightning is a brilliant flash of light produced by an electrical discharge from a storm cloud.
The electrical discharge takes place when the attractive tension between a region of negatively charged particles and a region of positively charged particles becomes so great that the charged particles suddenly rush together.
The coming together of the oppositely charged particles neutralizes the electrical tension and releases a tremendous amount of energy, which we see as lightning.
The separation of positively and negatively charged particles takes place during the development of the storm cloud.
The separation of charged particles that forms in a storm cloud has a sandwich-like structure.
Concentrations of positively charged particles develop at the top and bottom of the cloud, but the middle region becomes negatively charged.
Recent measurements made in the field together with laboratory simulations offer a promising explanation of how this structure of charged particles forms.
At such temperatures, the collision between the ice pellets and the ice crystals causes electrical charges to shift so that the ice pellets acquire a negative charge and the ice crystals become positively charged.
Then updraft wind currents carry the light, positively charged ice crystals up to the top of the cloud.
The heavier negatively charged ice pellets are left to concentrate in the center.
This process explains why the top of the cloud becomes positively charged, while the center becomes negatively charged.
The negatively charged region is large: several hundred meters thick and several kilometers in diameter.
Below this large, cold, negatively charged region, the cloud is warmer than -15  , and at these temperatures, collisions between ice crystals and falling ice pellets produce positively charged ice pellets that then populate a small region at the base of the cloud. 
Most lightning takes place within a cloud when the charge separation within the cloud collapses.
However, as the storm cloud develops, the ground beneath the cloud becomes positively charged and lightning can take place in the form of an electrical discharge between the negative charge of the cloud and the positively charged ground.
When a stream of these negatively charged electrons comes within 100 meters of the ground it is met by a stream of positively charged particles that comes up from the ground.
When the negatively and positively charged streams meet, a complete channel connecting the cloud and the ground is formed.
Once a channel has been formed, it is usually used by several lightning discharges, each of them consisting of a stream of electrons from the cloud meeting a stream of positive particles along the established path.
Discovering the inputs and outputs of rivers is a matter of measuring the discharges of every inflowing and outflowing stream and river.
