Previously, large audiences had viewed spectacles at the theater, where vaudeville, popular dramas, musical and minstrel shows, classical plays, lectures, and slide-and-lantern shows had been presented to several hundred spectators at a time.
The picture of Teotihuac  n that emerges is a classic picture of positive feedback among obsidian mining and working, trade, population growth, irrigation, and religious tourism.
Teachers, it is thought, benefit from the practice of reflection, the conscious act of thinking deeply about and carefully examining the interactions and events within their own classrooms.
Wildman and Niles observed that systematic reflection on teaching required a sound ability to understand classroom events in an objective manner.
Helping this group of teachers to revise their thinking about classroom events became central.
Long and often lyrical descriptions of the different types of ware exist that assist in classifying pots, although these sometimes confuse an already large and complicated picture.
In fact, a lack of understanding concerning the purposes of Egyptian art has often led it to be compared unfavorably with the art of other cultures: Why did the Egyptians not develop sculpture in which the body turned and twisted through space like classical Greek statuary?
A classic example is noisy begging by nestling songbirds when a parent returns to the nest with food.
Inequalities of wealth and rank certainly exist, and have probably existed in most pastoralist societies, but except in periods of military conquest, they are normally too slight to generate the stable, hereditary hierarchies that are usually implied by the use of the term class.
Glaciers are sometimes classified by temperature as faster-flowing temperate glaciers or as slower-flowing polar glaciers.
It was therefore quite surprising when John William Strut (Lord Rayleigh, discovered a gaseous element in 1894 that did not fit into the previous classification scheme.
In Denmark and Sweden agricultural reforms took place gradually from the late eighteenth century through the first half of the nineteenth, resulting in a new class of peasant landowners with a definite market orientation.
In American society, however, the class structure was less rigid; some people changed occupations easily and believed it was their duty to improve their social and economic position.
The Allende meteorite is classified as a chondrite.
Venetian shipping had started to decline from about 1530-before the entry into the Mediterranean of large volumes of Dutch and British shipping-and was clearly outclassed by the end of the century.
When the work was completed, many moved to other construction jobs or to factory work in cities and towns, where they became part of an expanding working class.
There are two general classes of vegetation: long-lived perennials, which may be succulent (water-storing) and are often dwarfed and woody, and annuals or ephemerals, which have a short life cycle and may form a fairly dense stand immediately after rain.
Most desert plants are probably best classified as xerophytes.
Another class of desert plant is the phreatophyte.
It was these conditions that allowed an elite to emerge, probably as an organizing class, and to sustain itself through the control of surplus crops.
The evolution of North American horses, which was once presented as a classic textbook example of gradual evolution, is now providing equally compelling evidence for punctuated equilibrium.
These organic metabolites could, and probably do, include a number of different classes of organic compounds.
Another class of metabolite is the vitamins.
The problems that were faced and solved in Athens were the sharing of political power between the established aristocracy and the emerging other classes, and the adjustment of aristocratic ways of life to the ways of life of the new polls.
It was the harmonious blending of all of these elements that was to produce the classical culture of Athens.
It was precisely this opportunity to participate in public life that provided a stimulus for the briar unfolding of classical Greek culture.
Second, this internationalism spelled the end of the classical Greek city-state    the unit of government in ancient Greece    and everything it stood for.
Learning these complex signs required long training and much practice; inevitably, literacy was largely limited to a small professional class, the scribes.
One remarkable aspect of this change was that the commercial classes constituted a small part of the total population  never more than 10 percent.
In the years to come, alliances with the middle classes were to enable kings to weaken aristocratic interests and build the states that came to be called modern.
The process was aided by two factors: the new demand for cheap classical texts and the translation of the Latin Bible into "modern" languages.
