Data from diverse sources, including geochemical evidence preserved in seafloor sediments, indicate that the Late Cretaceous climate was milder than today  s. The days were not too hot, nor the nights too cold.
Over a period of about 100,000 years, while the seas pulled back, climates around the world became dramatically more extreme: warmer days, cooler nights; hotter summers, colder winters.
If true, though, why did cold-blooded animals such as snakes, lizards, turtles, and crocodiles survive the freezing winters and torrid summers?
Their absence supports the picture of a cold, dry Mars that never experienced the extended mild period required to form lakes and oceans.
The question is not why they would leave the cold of winter so much as how they find their way around.
It swims farther into the cold of the northern and southern oceans than any other sea turtle, and it deals with the chilly waters in a way unique among reptiles.
Gigantothermy, though, would not be enough to keep a leatherback warm in cold northern waters.
We do not know how old, or how large, a leatherback has to be before it can switch from a cold-blooded to a warm-blooded mode of life.
What happens is that small (millimeter-to centimeter-size) pellets of ice form in the cold upper regions of the cloud.
Below this large, cold, negatively charged region, the cloud is warmer than -15  , and at these temperatures, collisions between ice crystals and falling ice pellets produce positively charged ice pellets that then populate a small region at the base of the cloud. 
If something blocks the "good" side, such as congestion from allergies or a cold, then resistance increases dramatically.
For many years scientists assumed that a cooling of the climate was responsible, with dinosaurs being particularly vulnerable because, like modern reptiles, they were ectothermic (dependent on environmental heat, or cold-blooded).
He found that the deeper the water, the colder it got, and he concluded that the seafloor was covered with a thick layer of ice.
They imagined the deep sea as being filled with an unmoving and undisturbable pool of cold, dense water.
In reality the deep is always being refreshed by cold water sinking from above.
The principal elements in behavioral thermoregulation are basking (heliothermy), heat exchange with substrates such as rock or earth (thigmothermy)  and diurnal and annual avoidance behaviors, which include moving to shelter during the day for cooling and hibernating or estivating (reducing activity during cold or hot weather, respectively).
The cold Humboldt Current of the Pacific Ocean flows toward the equator along the coasts of Ecuador and Peru in South America.
When the current approaches the equator, the westward-flowing trade winds cause nutrient-rich cold water along the coast to rise from deeper depths to more shallow ones.
Every year during the months of December and January, a weak, warm countercurrent replaces the normally cold coastal waters.
In fact, this is the time of year they traditionally set aside to tend to their equipment and await the return of cold water.
The western Pacific develops a thick, warm layer of water while the eastern Pacific has the cold Humboldt Current enhanced by upwelling.
For example, in areas of the cold North Atlantic, ice may form in winter.
These included a common mammalian fauna of large mammals, a common flora composed of broad grasslands as well as wind-swept dunes and tundra, and a common climate with cold, dry winters and somewhat wanner summers.
The presence of mammal species that require grassland vegetation has led Arctic biologist Dale Guthrie to argue that while cold and dry, there must have been broad areas of dense vegetation to support herds of mammoth, horse, and bison.
When it is cold in winter, subterranean termites move to burrows below the frost line. 
