In lowland country almost any spot on the ground may overlie what was once the bed of a river that has since become buried by soil; if they are now below the water  s upper surface (the water table), the gravels and sands of the former riverbed, and its sandbars, will be saturated with groundwater. 
This is because the gaps among the original grains are often not totally plugged with cementing chemicals; also, parts of the original grains may become dissolved by percolating groundwater, either while consolidation is taking place or at any time afterwards.
If the pores are large, the water in them will exist as drops too heavy for surface tension to hold, and it will drain away; but if the pores are small enough, the water in them will exist as thin films, too light to overcome the force of surface tension holding them in place; then the water will be firmly held. 
During the early stages of its development, a society becomes aware of forces that appear to influence or control its food supply and well-being.
As a person becomes more sophisticated, its conceptions of supernatural forces and causal relationships may change.
But the myths that have grown up around the rites may continue as part of the group  s oral tradition and may even come to be acted out under conditions divorced from these rites.
For example, one sign of this condition is the appearance of the comic vision, since comedy requires sufficient detachment to view some deviations from social norms as ridiculous rather than as serious threats to the welfare of the entire group.
At the upper timberline the trees begin to become twisted and deformed.
A structural invention had to be made before the physical limitations of stone could be overcome and new architectural forms could be created.
Many ecologists now think that the relative long-term stability of climax communities comes not from diversity but from the   patchiness   of the environment, an environment that varies from place to place supports more kinds of organisms than an environment that is uniform.
Great tracts of lowland country deforested by logging, fire, or both have become ideal feeding grounds of deer.
As oil becomes increasingly difficult to find, the search for it is extended into more-hostile environments.
More than one-quarter of the world  s oil and almost one-fifth of the world  s natural gas come from offshore, even though offshore drilling is six to seven times more expensive than drilling on land.
A significant part of this oil and gas comes from under the North Sea between Great Britain and Norway. 
Research has focused on the toxic effects of heavy metals such as lead, cadmium, mercury, and aluminum; however, even copper and zinc, which are essential elements, can become toxic in high concentrations.
Pacific islanders are variously thought to have come from North America, South America, Egypt, Israel, and India, as well as Southeast Asia.
Early in the eighteenth century, a pump had come into use in which expanding steam raised a piston in a cylinder, and atmospheric pressure brought it down again when the steam condensed inside the cylinder to form a vacuum.
This   atmospheric engine,   invented by Thomas Savery and vastly improved by his partner, Thomas Newcomen, embodied revolutionary principles, but it was so slow and wasteful of fuel that it could not be employed outside the coal mines for which it had been designed.
But as more and more accumulations of strata were cataloged in more and more places, it became clear that the sequences of rocks sometimes differed from region to region and that no rock type was ever going to become a reliable time marker throughout the world.
Not only could Smith identify rock strata by the fossils they contained, he could also see a pattern emerging: certain fossils always appear in more ancient sediments, while others begin to be seen as the strata become more recent.
The time had come to formulate a hypothesis.
Few have directly questioned what might lead a teacher to want to become reflective.
Remarkably resistant to the vicissitudes of ocean travel, they can survive prolonged immersion in saltwater when they come to rest on warm beaches and the conditions are favorable, the seed coats soften.
Only when European decorative themes were introduced did these meanings become obscured or even lost.
Members of poor peasant families spun or wove cloth and linens at home for scant remuneration in an attempt to supplement meager family income.
Furthermore, they fly to very specific places in South America and will often come back to the same trees in North American yards the following spring.
Further evidence for the costs of begging comes from a study of differences in the begging calls of warbler species that nest on the ground versus those that nest in the relative safety of trees.
Much of the evidence about right-hand versus left-hand dominance comes from stencils and prints found in rock shelters in Australia and elsewhere, and in many Ice Age caves in France, Spain, and Tasmania.
In stone toolmaking experiments, Nick Toth, a right-hander, held the core (the stone that would become the tool) in his left hand and the hammer stone in his right.
Despite all the highly visible technological developments in theatrical and home delivery of the moving image that have occurred over the decades since then, no single innovation has come close to being regarded as a similar kind of watershed.
The introduction of new screen formats was put off for a quarter century, and color, though utilized over the next two decades for special productions, also did not become a norm until the 1950s.
In recent years, groundwater has become an increasingly important source of freshwater for desert dwellers.
When an association continues long enough for two people to become linked together by a relatively stable set of expectations, it is called a relationship.
A secondary group entails two or more people who are involved in an impersonal relationship and have come together for a specific, practical purpose.
People on the job often develop close relationships with coworkers as they come to share gripes, jokes, gossip, and satisfactions.
Observational assessment techniques have become much more sophisticated, reducing the limitations just presented.
Two additional techniques of studying infant perception have come into vogue.
The intention is for the positively perceived attributes of the celebrity to be transferred to the advertised product and for the two to become automatically linked in the audience's mind.
From north to south in the Yucatan Peninsula, where the Maya lived, rainfall ranges from 18 to 100 inches (457 to 2,540 millimeters) per year, and the soils become thicker, so that the southern peninsula was agriculturally more productive and supported denser populations.
When it comes to physiology, the leatherback turtle is, in some ways, more like a reptilian whale than a turtle.
However, most of its internal heat comes from the action of its muscles.
Because the flippers are comparatively thin and blade-like, they are the one part of the leatherback that is likely to become chilled.
Cases in which many species become extinct within a geologically short interval of time are called mass extinctions.
As the air space around them is lessened by compaction and melting, the grains become denser.
With additional time, pressure, and refrozen meltwater from above, the small firn granules become larger, interlocked crystals of blue glacial ice.
When the ice is thick enough, usually over 30 meters, the weight of the snow and firn will cause the ice crystals toward the bottom to become plastic and to flow outward or downward from the area of snow accumulation.
When snowfalls on high mountains or in polar regions, it may become part of the glacial system.
Unlike rain, which returns rapidly to the sea or atmosphere, the snow that becomes part of a glacier is involved in a much more slowly cycling system.
For example, tellurium comes before iodine in the periodic table, even though its atomic mass is slightly greater.
The Sun is the hub of a huge rotating system consisting of nine planets, their satellites, and numerous small bodies, including asteroids, comets, and meteoroids.
Certain institutional and practical norms had become established as well.     
In Sweden exports accounted for 18 percent of the national income in 1870, and in 1913, 22 percent of a much larger national income.
About the closest any research has come to supporting the tiredness theory is to confirm that adults yawn more often on weekdays than at weekends, and that school children yawn more frequently in their first year at primary school than they do in kindergarten.
The electrical discharge takes place when the attractive tension between a region of negatively charged particles and a region of positively charged particles becomes so great that the charged particles suddenly rush together.
Concentrations of positively charged particles develop at the top and bottom of the cloud, but the middle region becomes negatively charged.
At such temperatures, the collision between the ice pellets and the ice crystals causes electrical charges to shift so that the ice pellets acquire a negative charge and the ice crystals become positively charged.
This process explains why the top of the cloud becomes positively charged, while the center becomes negatively charged.
However, as the storm cloud develops, the ground beneath the cloud becomes positively charged and lightning can take place in the form of an electrical discharge between the negative charge of the cloud and the positively charged ground.
When a stream of these negatively charged electrons comes within 100 meters of the ground it is met by a stream of positively charged particles that comes up from the ground.
The circumstances that had allowed natives to become Romanized also led the self-sustaining military community of the frontier area to become effectively British.
Leaves and tissue of soft-bodied organisms such as jellyfish or worms may accumulate, become buried and compressed, and lose their volatile constituents.
Geothermal energy becomes available in a practical form when underground heat is transferred by water that is heated as it passes through a subsurface region of hot rocks (a heat reservoir) that may be hundreds or thousands of feet deep.
How did it come about that farming developed independently in a number of world centers (the Southeast Asian mainland, Southwest Asia, Central America, lowland and highland South America, and equatorial Africa) at more or less the same time?
To start with, it forced the population to abandon the nomad's life and become sedentary, to develop methods of storage and, often, systems of irrigation.
The development of an understanding of the self becomes evident between the first and second years of life and shows rapid elaboration in subsequent years.
Once children become capable of answering such questions as "What does it mean to remember?"
Even with a massive effort, it is doubtful that complete eradication of Spartina from nonnative habitats is possible, for it has become an integral part of these shorelines and estuaries during the last 100 to 200 years.
There was also a demand among urban consumers for dairy products such as butter and cheese, which, in the sixteenth century, had become more expensive than grain.
The most significant data have come from a concentration on three major questions.
Where does the water in a lake come from, and how does water leave it?
The questions become more complicated when actual volumes of water are considered: how much water enters and leaves by each route?
Once all this information has been gathered, it becomes possible to judge whether a lake  s flow is mainly due to its surface inputs and outputs or to its underground inputs and outputs.
The slowing down of water renewal leads to a chain of further consequences; it causes dissolved chemicals to become increasingly concentrated, and this, in turn, has a marked effect on all living things in the lake.
During NREM (the phase of sleep in which there is no rapid eye movement) breathing becomes deeper and more regular, but there is also a decrease in the breathing rate, resulting in less air being exchanged overall.
Some of the muscles that help keep the upper airway open when breathing tend to become more relaxed during sleep, especially during REM (the phase of sleep in which there is rapid eye movement).
After several generations of population growth, people packed the landscape in densities so high that communal pueblos may have been a necessary outcome.
So once natural selection had shaped the adaptations that helped plants overcome the obstacles to terrestrial living, plants prospered and diversified.
When experimental populations are set up under simple laboratory conditions, the predator often exterminates its prey and then becomes extinct itself, having nothing left to eat.
In the intergranular spaces of rocks, however, fluid must flow around and between grains in a tortuous path; this winding path causes a resistance to flow.The rate at which the flowing water overcomes this resistance is related to the permeability of rock.
This was a landscape where antelope of all kinds abounded  along with Bos primigenius, a kind of oxen that has become extinct.
Furthermore, most species do not depend entirely on a single resource, if the major resource for a species becomes scarce, the species can usually shift to alternative resources.
The effects of such competition are graphically demonstrated when all the animals or all the plants in an ecosystem come into competition, as happened 2 million years ago at the end of the Pliocene, when North and South America became joined by the Isthmus of Panama.
(The word turbine comes from the Latin turbo: something that spins).
Sometimes a closed question must be reopened as new evidence or new arguments based on old evidence come to light.
Eventually the subpopulations become so genetically distinct that they cannot interbreed even if the physical barriers between them were removed.
For instance, compared with children who did not participate in early intervention programs, participants in various programs showed gains in emotional or cognitive development, better educational outcomes, increased economic self-sufficiency, reduced level of criminal activity, and improved health-related behaviors.
These soils usually contain large amounts of clay and easily become water-saturated.
But in experimental areas protected from fire, a few perennial grass species eventually come to dominate, outcompeting all others.
Success in colonization depends to a great extent on there being a site available for colonization---a safe site where disturbance by fire or by cutting down of trees has either removed competing species or reduced levels of competition and other negative interactions to a level at which the invading species can become established.
In time, the   big men   become formal symbols of authority and pass on that authority to others within their own family.
A sharp rise in demand for grain abroad also encouraged farmers in the Northeast and Midwest to become more commercially oriented.
Although paper was never as cheap as it has become today, it was far less expensive than parchment, and therefore more people could afford to buy books.
Vast forests enabled Russia to become the world  s leading producer of iron, much of which was exported to Britain.
In an attempt to overcome these disadvantages, Thomas Savery in 1698 and Tomas Newcomen in 1705 invented the first primitive steam engines.
However, by the early 1770s, many of the Savery engines and hundreds of the Newcomen engines were operating successfully, though inefficiently, in English and Scottish mines. 
In 1763, Watt was called on to repair a Newcomen engine being used in a physics course.
After a series of observations, Watt saw that the Newcomen  s waste of energy could be reduced by adding a separate condenser.
Over time, the layers become sedimentary rock.
This may be one of the factors, but it is unlikely to be the sole cause because there are species that become dominant species at various temperatures.
In such cases, the population explosion of dinoflagellates is so great that the water becomes brownish red in color from the billions of dinoflagellate cells.
For example, in highly acidic soils where few bacteria can survive, fungi frequently become the chief decomposers of organic matter. 
In industrialized areas, lichens are destroyed by pollution, tree barks become darker, and dark moths are the ones birds have difficulty detecting.
The light-colored form of the peppered moth is making a strong comeback.
Compressed, it became water and earth, and when rarefied or thinned out, it heated up to become fire.
This may be either to establish a new population where a population of conspecifics ( animals or plants belonging to the same species) has become extinct or to add individuals to an existing population.
One problem was getting people to the upper floors, since after five or six stories it becomes exhausting to climb stairs.
By the mid-1800s, these discoveries led to the cell theory, which states that all living things are composed of cells and that all cells come from other cells. 
Raccoons have been able to exploit crops, especially com but also cereal grains, which have become dependable food sources for them.
By the 1960s the raccoon had become a major predator of the canvasback ducks nesting in southwestern Manitoba.
However, in some cases, it may become a serious problem.
Between 80 and 85 million years ago, Gondwanaland, a giant continent made up of what today is Africa, Antarctica, Australia, and South America, broke up, thus causing what is now New Zealand to become separated from the larger landmass.
However, loggers concentrated on removing those big, old, valuable, fire-resistant ponderosa pines, while fire suppression for decades let the understory fill up with Douglas fir saplings that would in turn become valuable when full-grown.
When a fire finally does start in a sapling-choked forest, whether due to lightning or human carelessness or (regrettably often) intentional arson, the dense, tall saplings young trees) may become a ladder that allows the fire to jump into the crowns of the trees.
The outcome is sometimes an unstoppable inferno.
When the world, which was created in beauty, becomes ugly and disorderly, the Navajo gather to perform rituals with songs and make sand paintings to restore beauty and harmony to the world.
As relative newcomers to the Southwest, a place where their climate, neighbors, and rulers could be equally inhospitable, the Navajo created these art forms to affect the world around them, not just through the recounting of the actions symbolized, but through the beauty and harmony of the artworks themselves.
Much of the water on both planets is also thought to have come from impacts from comets, icy bodies formed in the outer solar system.
Venus and Earth are similar in size and mass, so Venusian volcanoes may well have outgassed as much water vapor as on Earth, and both planets would have had about the same number of comets strike their surfaces.
A mountain range may emerge and gradually split a population of organisms that can inhabit only lowland lakes; certain fish populations might become isolated in this way.
Completely isolated on the island after migrating from the mainland, the founder population may have undergone significant changes in its gene pool and become a new species.
Estimated to be ten to fifteen kilometers in diameter, this bolide (either a comet or an asteroid) was traveling at cosmic speeds of 20-70 kilometers per second, or 45,000-156,000 miles per hour.
It is now well established that petroleum migrates through aquifers and can become trapped in reservoirs.
In this way, oil becomes segregated from the water; when it encounters a trap, it can form a pool.
Without the upwelling of nutrients from below to feed the fish, fishing comes to a standstill.
Over the last few decades, the term El  Nifio has come to be used to describe these exceptionally strong episodes and not the annual event.
What ecological pressures might have caused fishes to gradually abandon their watery habitat and become increasingly land-dwelling creatures?
Even fishes can become successful filter-feeders in some circumstances Although the vast majority of marine fishes are carnivores, in near-surface regions of high productivity the concentrations of larger phytoplankton (the plant component of plankton) are sufficient to support huge populations of filter-feeding sardines and anchovies.
Many of the groups of animals that typify the filter-feeding lifestyle in shallow water have deep-sea representatives that have become predatory.
Among the fishes there is a tendency for the teeth and jaws to become appreciably enlarged.
Clay, moreover, is cheap, and forming it into tablets is easy, factors that helped the clay tablet become the preferred writing material not only throughout Mesopotamia but far outside it as well, in Syria, Asia Minor, Persia, and even for a while in Crete and Greece.
In the years to come, alliances with the middle classes were to enable kings to weaken aristocratic interests and build the states that came to be called modern.
Since termites are small and soft-bodied, they easily become desiccated and must live in moist places with a high relative humidity.
A second form of direct evidence comes from coprolites (fossilized bodily waste).
