The first community in a succession is called a pioneer community, while the long-lived community at the end of succession is called a climax community.
In contrast, a complex climax community, such as a temperate forest, will tolerate considerable damage from weather to pests.
In that case, the climax community would be considered the most stable, since, by definition, it changes the least over time.
At least in temperate zones, maximum diversity is often found in mid-successional stages, not in the climax community.
We need to know what aspects of a community are most important to the community  s resistance to destruction, as well as its recovery.
A local population that goes extinct is quickly replaced by immigrants from an adjacent community.
For instance, some social groups employ shunning (a person can remain in the community, but others are forbidden to interact with the person) as a device to bring into line individuals whose behavior goes beyond that allowed by the particular group.
In the multiplicity of small-scale local egalitarian or quasi-egalitarian organizations for fellowship, worship, and production that flourished in this laissez-faire environment, individuals could interact with one another within a community of harmony and ideological equality, following their own popularly elected leaders and governing themselves by shared consensus while minimizing distinctions of wealth and power.
The first and the third can be key factors in the structure of a biological community; that is, all the populations of organisms living together and potentially interacting in a particular area.
This process of settling in as a community over several generations, combined with local recruitment, presumably accounts for the apparent stability of the British northern frontier in the later Roman period.
The circumstances that had allowed natives to become Romanized also led the self-sustaining military community of the frontier area to become effectively British.
The emphasis of this new "community ecology" was on the composition and structure of communities consisting of different species.
There is usually a good deal of turnover in species composition, even in a mature community.
Many authors prefer the term "association" to the term "community" in order to stress the looseness of the interaction. 
The spruce community is not substantially affected by either the presence or absence of moose.
They were no longer a series of small bands but lived in a large community with more elaborate social organization, probably grouped into clans of people of common descent.
It was a close-knit community of rectangular, one-story mud-brick houses, joined by narrow lanes and courtyards, finally abandoned about 5000 B.C..
However, if the community contains a predator of the strongest competitor species, then the population of that competitor is controlled.
Therefore, from the stand point of diversity, it is usually a mistake to eliminate a major predator from a community.
To what extent competition determines the composition of a community and the density of particular species has been the source of considerable controversy.
The first community that occupies a disturbed area therefore may be composed of species with the highest rate of invasion, whereas the community of the subsequent stage may consist of plants with similar survival rates but lower invasion rates.
The increase in food production in these regions led to a significant growth in population, while efforts to control the flow of water to maximize the irrigation of cultivated areas and to protect the local inhabitants from hostile forces outside the community provoked the first steps toward cooperative activities on a large scale.
By means of their military prowess, dominant personalities, or political talents, these people gradually emerge as the leaders of that community.
This succession is different from typical terrestrial ecological succession in which various plants replace one another until finally a so-called climax community develops, which persists for many years.
The effect of Cleisthenes, reforms was to establish the superiority of the Athenian community as a whole over local institutions without destroying them.
There is also a large mass of material, developed below ground as root tissues, but this is less apparent Careful analysis of the aboveground material reveals that it is arranged in a series of layers, the precise number of layers varying with age and the nature of the forest The arrangement of the biological mass (biomass) of the vegetation into layered forms is termed its "structure" (as opposed to its "composition", which refers to the species of organisms forming the community).
The Maya lived in a relatively uniform environment, where every community suffered from the same resource deficiencies.
felt that the ideal city-state should have about 5,000 citizens, because to the Greeks it was important that everyone in the community should know each other.
There were getting to be too many persons to know, an easily observable community of interests was being replaced by a multiplicity of interests.
In addition, plants had emerged into terrestrial habitats in areas near streams and ponds, and crabs and other arthropods were also members of this earliest terrestrial community.
Hanseatic merchants established foreign trading centers, the most famous of which was the London Steelyard, a walled community with warehouses, offices, a church, and residential quarters for company representatives.
