Beds of this material, out of sight beneath the soil, are common.
Most crystalline rocks are much more solid; a common exception is basalt, a form of solidified volcanic lava, which is sometimes full of tiny bubbles that make it very porous.
During the dry periods that are common phenomena along the desert margins, though, the pressure on the land is often far in excess of its diminished capacity, and desertification results. 
These regions are especially likely to have periods of severe dryness, so that crop failures are common.
The black-tailed deer, a lowland, west-side cousin of the mule deer of eastern Washington, is now the most common.
The other species, the Columbian white-tailed deer, in earlier times was common in the open prairie country; it is now restricted to the low, marshy islands and flood plains along the lower Columbia River. 
Although this rise of oil is almost always carefully controlled today, spouts of oil, or gushers, were common in the past.
Were they salt domes such as are common along the United States Gulf Coast, and if so, why should there have been so much solid crystalline salt beneath the floor of the Mediterranean? 
The organizational bonds were based on the common principles of law and administration and on the universal army of officials who enforced common standards of conduct.
Ir has not been common at Earth  s since the very beginning of the planet  s history.
These critics were making a common assumption  that the technological inadequacies of earlier efforts (poor synchronization, weak sound amplification, fragile sound recordings) would invariably occur again.
Flats and depressions where water can collect are common features, but they make up only a small part of the landscape.
Fantasy is one of the more common techniques in advertising that could possibly mislead a young audience.
The use of celebrities such as singers and movie stars is common in advertising.
They were no longer a series of small bands but lived in a large community with more elaborate social organization, probably grouped into clans of people of common descent.
When one considers the many ways by which organisms are completely destroyed after death, it is remarkable that fossils are as common as they are.
The simple motifs found at Panaramitee are common to many rock-art sites across Australia.
Occasionally, common sense tells you which of these two possibilities applies.
The resulting adaptations to dry land include some structural features that arose early in plant evolution; now these features are common to virtually all land plant.
Sedimentary rocks  the most common rock type near the surface  are also the most common reservoirs for water because they contain the most space that can be filled with water.Sandstones generally make good aquifers, while finer-grained mudstones are typically impermeable.
In all but the remotest regions of the empire, Roman pottery of a high standard is common at the sites of humble villages and isolated farmsteads.
Unfortunately this early plant experienced the problem common to many forms of renewable energy: the flow in the Wey River was unreliable, and the waterwheel was soon replaced by a steam engine.
This should not be surprising, since allopatry is pretty common.
How the first governments took shape in these areas is not certain, but anthropologists studying the evolution of human communities in various parts of the world have discovered that one common stage in the process is the emergence of what are called   big men   within a single village or a collection of villages.
This came about from two major developments: paper became common, replacing parchment as the major medium for writing, and rounded scripts were regularized and perfected so that they replaced the angular scripts of the previous period, which because of their angularity were uneven in height.
Before A.D. 900, manuscripts of the Koran (the book containing the teachings of the Islamic religion) seem to have been the most common type of book produced and decorated, but after that date a wide range of books were produced for a broad spectrum of patrons.
High levels of physical activity and long periods of nursing, which are common among modern simple foragers, probably also contributed to low levels of female fertility if they were likewise common among ancient foragers. 
It is becoming increasingly common for conservationists to move individual animals or entire species from one site to another.
The most common transgenic crops are soybeans, corn, cotton, and canola.
Hefiothermy is especially common among frogs and toads: it allows them to increase their body temperature by more than 10*C. The Andean toad Bufo spinulosus exposes itself immediately after sunrise on moist ground and attains its preferred body temperature by this means, long before either ground or air is correspondingly warmed.
Conversely, natteijacks in southern Spain remain active during the mild winters common to the region and are instead forced into inactivity during the dry, hot summer season Summer estivation also occurs by burrowing into the ground or hiding in cool, deep rock crevasses to avoid desiccation and lethal ambient temperatures.
But if water vapor and carbon dioxide were once so common in the atmospheres of both Earth and Venus, what became of Earth  s carbon dioxide?
One of the groups whose fossils are especially common in rocks deposited in fresh water is the lobe-finned fish.
These included a common mammalian fauna of large mammals, a common flora composed of broad grasslands as well as wind-swept dunes and tundra, and a common climate with cold, dry winters and somewhat wanner summers.
Wind pollination is often seen as being primitive and wasteful in costly pollen and yet it is surprisingly common, especially in higher latitudes.
In the Near East they remained in use for more than two and a half millennia, and in certain areas they lasted down to the beginning of the common era until finally yielding, once and for all, to more convenient alternatives.
Similar finds in Corythosaurus specimens from Alberta, Canada, have also been reported, indicating that at least two kinds of Late Cretaceous hadrosaurs fed on the sorts of tress that are common in today  s boreal woodlands.
At the same time, people were moving to the city, partly because of the enclosure movement; that is, the fencing of common fields and pastures in order to provide more compact, efficient privately held agricultural parcels that would produce more goods and greater profits.
Nonlandholding peasants and cottage workers, who worked for wages and grazed cows or pigs on the village common, were also hurt when the common was no longer available.
