In some cases the loose soil is blown completely away, leaving a stony surface.
The increased pressures of expanding populations have led to the removal of woody plants so that many cities and towns are surrounded by large areas completely lacking in trees and shrubs.
Rainfall is not completely absent in desert areas, but it is highly variable.
By isolating organisms completely from external periodic cues, biologists learned that organisms have internal clocks.
Because there is no space in the periodic table between these two elements, Mendeleyev suggested that the atomic mass of indium be changed to a completely different value, where it would fill an empty space between cadmium and tin.
Few cases of absolute commensalism probably exist, because it is unlikely that one of the partners will be completely unaffected.
A completely different theory holds that yawning assists in the physical development of the lungs early in life, but has no remaining biological function in adults.
When one considers the many ways by which organisms are completely destroyed after death, it is remarkable that fossils are as common as they are.
A century later the picture was completely different: by then, the world had an electric industry, and a quarter of its generating capacity was water powered.
The change separated populations of insects now living along opposite shore, completely cutting off gene flow between them.
Village handicrafts diminished or died out completely as people bought imported consumer goods, like cloth and tools, instead of making them themselves.
Anaximander, observing the motions of the heavens around the polestar, was probably the first of the Greek philosophers to picture the sky as sphere completely surrounding Earth--an idea that, elaborated upon later, would prevail until the advent of the Scientific Revolution in the seventeenth century. 
By contrast, any explanation that focuses strictly on the dinosaurs completely misses the point.
Greek philosophy  or even a focus on conscience  might complement religion but was no substitute for it, and this made Greeks receptive to the religious systems of the Middle East, even if they never adopted them completely The combination of the religious instinct of Asia with the philosophic spirit of Greece spread across the world in the era after Alexander  s death, blending the culture of the Middle East with the culture of Greece.
The slow but steady transformation of European society from almost completely rural and isolated to relatively more urban constituted the greatest effect of the commercial revolution that began in the eleventh century.
Many parts of plants and animals are extremely resistant to the digestive systems of animals and pass completely through the body with little or no alteration.
