Immediately adjacent to the timberline, the tundra consists of a fairly complete cover of low-lying shrubs, herbs, and grasses, while higher up the number and diversity of species decrease until there is much bare ground with occasional mosses and lichens and some prostrate cushion plants.
The fossil consists of a complete skull of an archaeocyte, an extinct group of ancestors of modern cetaceans.
Many incomplete skeletons were found but they included, for the first time in an archaeocyte, a complete hind leg that features a foot with three tiny toes.
In some cases the loose soil is blown completely away, leaving a stony surface.
The increased pressures of expanding populations have led to the removal of woody plants so that many cities and towns are surrounded by large areas completely lacking in trees and shrubs.
At the production level, in the United States the conversion was virtually complete by 1930.
The triumph of sound cinema was swift, complete, and enormously popular.
Rainfall is not completely absent in desert areas, but it is highly variable.
By isolating organisms completely from external periodic cues, biologists learned that organisms have internal clocks.
Because there is no space in the periodic table between these two elements, Mendeleyev suggested that the atomic mass of indium be changed to a completely different value, where it would fill an empty space between cadmium and tin.
Few cases of absolute commensalism probably exist, because it is unlikely that one of the partners will be completely unaffected.
A completely different theory holds that yawning assists in the physical development of the lungs early in life, but has no remaining biological function in adults.
When the negatively and positively charged streams meet, a complete channel connecting the cloud and the ground is formed.
That is why the subsequent lightning that follows the completed channel often strikes a tall structure.
Ocean sediments presented a much more complete geologic record of the Pleistocene than continental glacial deposits did.
When one considers the many ways by which organisms are completely destroyed after death, it is remarkable that fossils are as common as they are.
However, the chances of escaping complete destruction are vastly improved if the organism happens to have a mineralized skeleton and dies in a place where it can be quickly buried by sediment.
Even with a massive effort, it is doubtful that complete eradication of Spartina from nonnative habitats is possible, for it has become an integral part of these shorelines and estuaries during the last 100 to 200 years.
However, the arrival of the steam engine initiated a complete transformation in rail transportation, entrenching and expanding the Industrial Revolution.
When the work was completed, many moved to other construction jobs or to factory work in cities and towns, where they became part of an expanding working class.
At greater depths within Earth, the pressure of the overlying rock causes pores and cracks to close, reducing the space that pore water can occupy, and almost complete closure occurs at a depth of about 10 kilometers.
When completed, the buck rub is an obvious visual signal to us and presumably to other deer in the area.
A century later the picture was completely different: by then, the world had an electric industry, and a quarter of its generating capacity was water powered.
The change separated populations of insects now living along opposite shore, completely cutting off gene flow between them.
In other groups, however, genetic divergences had not proceeded so far, and the descendants could still interbreed   for them, reproductive isolation was not completed, and so speciation had not occurred. 
In addition, results from other types of preschool readiness programs indicate that those who participate and graduate are less likely to repeat grades, and they are more likely to complete school than readiness program, for every dollar spent on the program, taxpayers saved seven dollars by the time the graduates reached the age of 27. 
Village handicrafts diminished or died out completely as people bought imported consumer goods, like cloth and tools, instead of making them themselves.
Anaximander, observing the motions of the heavens around the polestar, was probably the first of the Greek philosophers to picture the sky as sphere completely surrounding Earth--an idea that, elaborated upon later, would prevail until the advent of the Scientific Revolution in the seventeenth century. 
Cleisthenes' principal contribution to the creation of democracy at Athens was to complete the long process of weakening family and dam structures, especially among the aristocrats, and to set in their place locality-based corporations called demes, which became the point of entry for all civic and most religious life in Athens.
By contrast, any explanation that focuses strictly on the dinosaurs completely misses the point.
Yet Callisto seems to have frozen solid before the process of differentiation was complete.
Alexander the Great took his Greek armies to the east and in only a few years completed his creation of an empire out of much of southwest Asia In the new empire, barriers to trade and the movement of peoples were removed; markets were put in touch with one another.
Greek philosophy  or even a focus on conscience  might complement religion but was no substitute for it, and this made Greeks receptive to the religious systems of the Middle East, even if they never adopted them completely The combination of the religious instinct of Asia with the philosophic spirit of Greece spread across the world in the era after Alexander  s death, blending the culture of the Middle East with the culture of Greece.
When one of Vermeer  s paintings was X-rayed, it did not have any preliminary sketches on the canvas beneath the paint, but rather the complete image drawn in black and white without any trial sketches.
The slow but steady transformation of European society from almost completely rural and isolated to relatively more urban constituted the greatest effect of the commercial revolution that began in the eleventh century.
Ants and the other social members of their order, certain bees and wasps, have complete metarnorphosis in four life stages; egg, larva, pupa, and adult.
Among these is the almost complete internal peace maintained under Manchu rule during the eighteenth century.
Many parts of plants and animals are extremely resistant to the digestive systems of animals and pass completely through the body with little or no alteration.
It was completed in 1455 and is a marvel.
