When this occurs, the first step has been taken toward theater as an autonomous activity, and thereafter entertainment and aesthetic values may gradually replace the former mystical and socially efficacious concerns. 
In modern agriculture, mineral depletion of soils is a major concern, since harvesting crops interrupts the recycling of nutrients back to the soil.
They were concerned that many would be   drawn to these new, refreshing   conceptions of teaching only to find that the void between the abstractions and the realities of teacher reflection is too great to bridge.
In fact, a lack of understanding concerning the purposes of Egyptian art has often led it to be compared unfavorably with the art of other cultures: Why did the Egyptians not develop sculpture in which the body turned and twisted through space like classical Greek statuary?
General concern about misleading tactics that advertisers employ is centered on the use of exaggeration.
The ecologist is concerned primarily with the quantities of matter and energy that pass through a given ecosystem, and with the rates at which they do so.
Competition among individuals of the same species (intraspecies competition), one of the major mechanisms of natural selection, is the concern of evolutionary biology.
Competition among the individuals of different species (interspecies competition) is a major concern of ecology.
Of special concern is the development of insect populations resistant to the Bt toxin.
Perhaps the most serious concern about the transgenic crop plants currently in use is that they encourage farmers to move farther away from sustainable agricultural farming practices, meaning ones that allow natural resources to continually regenerate over the long run.
Conservation biologists have long been concerned that species extinction could have significant consequences for the stability of entire ecosystems  groups of interacting organisms and the physical environment that they inhabit.
Nevertheless, for archeologists concerned with the long periods of time of the Paleolithic period there are variations in coastlines of much greater magnitude to consider.
