But the myths that have grown up around the rites may continue as part of the group  s oral tradition and may even come to be acted out under conditions divorced from these rites.
Genetic engineering also may provide a partial solution, as new strains of drought-resistant crops continue to be developed.
Later on in the early years of the nineteenth century, when Fort Vancouver became the headquarters of the Hudson's Bay Company, deer populations continued to fluctuate.
Saline soils, which have high concentrations of sodium chloride and other salts, limit plant growth, and research continues to focus on developing salt-tolerant varieties of agricultural crops.
Paleontologists continue to search the fossil record for answers to these questions.
Maturation of the frontal lobes of the brain continues throughout early childhood, and this part of the brain may be critical for remembering particular episodes in ways that can be retrieved later.
As evaporation continued, the remaining brine (salt water) became so dense that the calcium sulfate of the hard layer was precipitated.
Once the idea of planting diffused, Africans began to develop their own crops, such as certain varieties of rice, and they demonstrated a continued receptiveness to new imports.
In the late sixteenth century and into the seventeenth, Europe continued the growth that had lifted it out of the relatively less prosperous medieval period (from the mid 400s to the late 1400s).
When an association continues long enough for two people to become linked together by a relatively stable set of expectations, it is called a relationship.
When crayfish are kept continuously in the dark, even for four to five months, their compound eyes continue to adjust on a daily schedule for daytime and nighttime vision.
Typically, the animal's daily internally generated cycle of activity continues without change.
Yet despite this synchronization of the period of the internal cycle, the animal's timer itself continues to have its own genetically built-in period close to, but different from, 24 hours.
If the infant fails to dishabituate and continues to show habituation with the new stimulus, it is assumed that the baby is unable to perceive the new stimulus as different.
The reverse process brought young men to Britain, where many continued to live after their 20 to 25 years of service, and this added to the cosmopolitan Roman character of the frontier population.
It also explains why some of the forts continued in occupation long after Rome ceased to have any formal authority in Britain, at the beginning of the fifth century A.D.
In the middle of the nineteenth century, Louis Agassiz, one of the first scientists to study glaciers, immigrated to the United States from Switzerland and became a professor at Harvard University, where he continued his studies in geology and other sciences.
The continued proliferation of banks made it easier for those without cash to negotiate loans in paper money.
First came the steamboat; although flatboats and keelboats continued to be important until the 1850  s steamboats eventually superseded all other craft in the carrying of passengers and freight.
Land reclamation continued, and between 1590 and 1665, almost 100,000 hectares were reclaimed from the wetland areas of Holland, Zeeland, and Friesland.
Although copper and stone tools continued to be used, bronze was far more successful in creating sharp edges that could be used as anything from saws and scythes to weapons.
In this situation the predator and prey populations may continue in this cyclical pattern for some time.
As the communities continue to grow in size and material wealth, the   big men   assume hereditary status, and their allies and family members are transformed into a hereditary monarchy.
Thus while the value of goods shipped by river to New Orleans continued to increase, the South  s overall share of western trade dropped dramatically.
These continued to include, of course, manuscripts of the Koran, which every Muslim wanted to read, but scientific works, histories, romances, and epic and lyric poetry were also copied in fine handwriting and decorated with beautiful illustrations.
In western Islamic land, parchment continued to be used for manuscripts of the Koran throughout this period. 
They continue to do so as the flower develops and while the fruit matures.
So even after reaching an area  s carrying capacity, Holocene human populations probably continued to grow in food-rich regions, overshooting the ability of the territory to feed the population, again within the context of the same subsistence strategy.
As it turned out, the existence of the azoic zone had been disproved even before Forbes suggested it, and the theory continued to be contradicted regularly throughout its long and influential life.
The mean concentration of sulphur dioxide pollution fell from about 300 micrograms per cubic meter in 1970 to less than 50 micrograms per cubic meter in 1975 and has remained fairly constant since then If the spread of the light-colored form of the moth continues at the same speed as the melanic form spread in the last century, soon the melanic form will again be only an occasional resident of the Liverpool area.
A rapid population surge continued throughout the 1940s.
By now, their numbers have undoubtedly grown even more, as they have continued to expand into new habitats where they were once either rare or absent, such as sandy prairies, deserts, coastal marshes, and mountains.
Among them were a large number of nonconformists whose religious principles encouraged thrift and industry rather than luxurious living and who tended to pour their profits back into their business, thus providing the basis for continued expansion.
