Of course in early architecture  such as igloos and adobe structures  there was no such equipment, and the skeleton and skin were often one.
Of course, there is far more oil underground than can be recovered.
These structures had been detected years earlier by echo-sounding instruments, but they had never been penetrated in the course of drilling.
Of course, the contrast is not quite so stark: in Alexander the Great the Greeks had found the greatest territorial conqueror of all time; and the Romans, once they moved outside Italy, did not fail to learn the lessons of sea power.
One also has to make the assumption that hands were stenciled palm downward  a left hand stenciled palm upward might of course look as if it were a right hand.
Our humanness arises out of these relationships in the course of social interaction.
All this applies, of course, only to an adult leatherback.
All exhibited moderate growth rates in the course of the century (Denmark the highest and Sweden the lowest), but all more than doubled in population by 1900.
There is a danger, of course, that play may be misinterpreted or not recognized as play by others, potentially leading to aggression.
Sun clocks worked, of course, only on clear days; water clocks misbehaved when the temperature fell toward freezing, to say nothing of long-run drift as the result of sedimentation and clogging.
Day and night were divided into the same number of parts, so that except at the equinoxes, day and night hours were unequal; and then of course the length of these hours varied with the seasons.
For example, in the 1800s a monstrous earthquake changed the course of the Mississippi River, a large river flowing in the central part of the United States of America.
Of course, not every program produced all these benefits, and not every child benefited to the same extent.
Over the course of the Fifth Reign (1868---1910), the ties that bound rural people to the aristocracy and local ruling elites were greatly reduced.
These continued to include, of course, manuscripts of the Koran, which every Muslim wanted to read, but scientific works, histories, romances, and epic and lyric poetry were also copied in fine handwriting and decorated with beautiful illustrations.
In 1763, Watt was called on to repair a Newcomen engine being used in a physics course.
In addition to the marked changes in abundance observed in phytoplankton over the course of a year, there is also a marked change in species composition.
One factor is the direct effect of logging, which often turns a forest into something approximating a huge pile of kindling (wood for burning): the ground in a logged forest may remain covered with branches and treetops, left behind when the valuable trunks are carted away; a dense growth of new vegetation springs up, further increasing the forest  s fuel loads; and the trees logged and removed are of course the biggest and most fire-resistant individuals, leaving behind smaller and more flammable trees.
With its gene pool isolated, a separate population can follow its own evolutionary course.
Wind pollination does, of course, require a lot of pollen.
