In the peepshow format, a film was viewed through a small opening in a machine that was created for that purpose.
It is the work of architects to create buildings that are not simply constructions but also offer inspiration and delight.
Structures can be analyzed in terms of how they deal with downward forces created by gravity.
A structural invention had to be made before the physical limitations of stone could be overcome and new architectural forms could be created.
Moreover, getting petroleum out of the ground and from under the sea and to the consumer can create environmental problems anywhere along the line.
Spillage from huge oil-carrying cargo ships, called tankers, involved in collisions or accidental groundings (such as the one off Alaska in 1989) can create oil slicks at sea.
This technique allows researchers to create solutions that selectively omit certain nutrients and then observe the resulting effects on the plants.
Conditions that promote fossilization of soft-bodied animals include very rapid covering by sediments that create an environment that discourages decomposition.
This job gave Smith an opportunity to study the fresh rock outcrops created by the newly dug canal.
Quartz is quartz  a silicon ion surrounded by four oxygen ions  there  s no difference at all between two-million-year-old Pleistocene quartz and Cambrian quartz created over 500 million years ago.
This view is supported by a variety of factors that can create mismatches between very young children's encoding and older children's and adults' retrieval efforts.
In all probability it was the fertile plain of Latium, where the Latins who founded Rome originated, that created the habits and skills of landed settlement, landed property, landed economy, landed administration, and a land-based society.
In view of these facts, scientists hypothesized that a single large asteroid, about 10 to 15 kilometers across, collided with Earth, and the resulting fallout created the boundary clay.
But detractors maintain that the terracescould also have been created by geological activity, perhaps related to the geologic forces that depressed the Northern Hemisphere far below the level of the south, in which case they have nothing whatever to do with Martian water.
This would have created a barrier of ice extending from the Alaska Peninsula, through the Gulf of Alaska and southward along the Northwest Coast of north America to what is today the state of Washington. 
Only iron smelting and mining required marshaling a significant amount of capital (wealth invested to create more wealth).
Statues were created not for their decorative effect but to play a primary role in the cults of the gods, the king, and the dead.
David Haskell created artificial nests with clay eggs and placed them on the ground beside a tape recorder that played the begging calls of either tree-nesting or of ground-nesting warblers.
The explanation is that the Maya excavated depressions, or modified natural depressions, and then plugged up leaks in the karst by plastering the bottoms of the depressions in order to create reservoirs, which collected rain from large plastered catchment basins and stored it for use in the dry season.
As a result, glaciers create a great variety of landforms that remain long after the surface is released from its icy covering.
The sheer scale of the investment it took to begin commercial expansion at sea reflects the immensity of the profits that such East-West trade could create Spices were the most sought-after commodities.
It operated by measuring the height of the Sun and the fixed stars: by calculating the angles created by these points, it determined the degree of latitude at which one stood (The problem of determining longitude, though, was not solved until the eighteenth century.)
Ever since European first explored Australia, people have been trying to understand the ancient rock drawings and cavings created by the Aborigines, the original inhabitants of the continent.
In order to create a sense of structure to this picture, researchers have relied on a distinction that still underlies the forms of much indigenous visual culture  a distinction between geometric and figurative elements.
The plates have edges that are spreading ridges (where two plates are moving apart and new seafloor is being created), subduction zones (where two plates collide and one plunges beneath the other),or transform faults(where two plates neither converge nor diverge but merely move past one another).It is at the boundaries between plates that most of Earth  s volcanism and earthquake activity occur.
Rubs are created about one to two months before the breeding season (the rut).Hence for a long time biologists believed that male deer used buck rubs not only to clean and polish antlers but also to provide practice for the ensuing male-to-male combat during the rut.
Buck scrapes are generally created after leaf-fall in autumn, which is just before or during the rut.
In 1881 the Godalming power station in Surrey, England, on the banks of the Wey River, created the world's first public electricity supply.
About 5 million years ago such geologic movements created the land bridge between North America and South America that we call he Isthmus of Panama.
Most scientist came to accept the meteorite theory after evidence came to light that a circular formation, 180 kilometers in diameter in diameter and centered on the north coast of the Yucatan Peninsula, was created by a meteorite impact about 65 million years ago.
It is possible for anyone to create   ideas   about the nature and structure of the universe, for instance, and many times these ideas can be so consistent and elaborately structured, or just so apparently obvious, that they can be persuasive to many people.
But to create usable high-rise buildings, a number of technical challenges needed to be solved.
Out of the demes were created 10 artificial tribes of roughly equal population.
Working from the inside of the design outward, the Navajo artist and his assistants will sift the black, white, bluish-gray, orange, and red materials through their fingers to create the finely detailed imagery.
It coexists with hochxo ("ugliness," or "evil," and "disorder") in a world where opposing forces of dynamism and stability create constant change.
When the world, which was created in beauty, becomes ugly and disorderly, the Navajo gather to perform rituals with songs and make sand paintings to restore beauty and harmony to the world.
As relative newcomers to the Southwest, a place where their climate, neighbors, and rulers could be equally inhospitable, the Navajo created these art forms to affect the world around them, not just through the recounting of the actions symbolized, but through the beauty and harmony of the artworks themselves.
Working from memory, the artists re-create the traditional form of the image as accurately as possible.
Navajo women own the family flocks, control the sharing of the sheep, the carding, the spinning, and dying of the thread, and the weaving of the fabrics While the men who make faithful copies of sand paintings from the past represent the principle of stability in Navajo thought, women embody dynamism and create new designs for every weaving they make.
As they prepare their materials and weave, Navajo women imitate the transformations that originally created the world.
Working on their looms, Navajo weavers create images through which they experience harmony with nature it is their means of creating beauty and thereby contributing to the beauty, harmony, and healing of the world.
But being closer to the Sun than Earth is, enough of the liquid water on Venus would have vaporized to create a thick cover of water vapor clouds.
Geographic isolation creates opportunities for new species to develop, but it does not necessarily lead to new species because speciation occurs only when the gene pool undergoes enough changes to establish reproductive barriers between the isolated population and its parent population.
Broad, windswept valleys; glaciated mountains; sparse vegetation; and less moisture created a rather forbidding land mass.
But stigmas create turbulence, which slows the air speed around them and may help pollen stick to them.
The commercial revolution created a great deal of new wealth, which meant a higher standard of living.
Wealth could be taxed, and through taxation, kings could create strong and centralized states.
Once seen by the natives, such objects created a fashion which rapidly spread through the province. 
When the ice sheets were at their greatest extent some 18,000 years ago (the glacier maximum), it is thought that the fall was about 120 meters, which therefore created not merely a bridge but a vast plain, 1,000 kilometers from the north to the south, which has been called Beringia.
The breakthrough came in Great Britain, where several economic advantages created a climate especially favorable to the encouraged of new technology.
Britain  s relatively stable government also helped create an atmosphere conducive to industrial progress.
