The arch was used by the early cultures of the Mediterranean area chiefly for underground drains, but it was the Romans who first developed and used the arch extensively in aboveground structures.
The ensuing rapid expansion of irrigation agriculture, especially from the 1950s onward, transformed the economy of the region.
In modern agriculture, mineral depletion of soils is a major concern, since harvesting crops interrupts the recycling of nutrients back to the soil.
The culture of that time, based on archaeology and linguistic reconstruction, is assumed to have had a broad inventory of cultivated plants including taro, yarns, banana, sugarcane, breadfruit, coconut, sago, and rice.
Just as important, the culture also possessed the basic foundation for an effective maritime adaptation, including outrigger canoes and a variety of fishing techniques that could be effective for overseas voyaging.
There is evidence of agriculture in Africa prior to 3000 B.C.
It may have developed independently, but many scholars believe that the spread of agriculture and iron throughout Africa linked it to the major centers of the Near East and Mediterranean world.
Agriculture seems to have reached these people from the Near East, since the first domesticated crops were millets and sorghums whose origins are not African but west Asian.
Iron came from West Asia, although its routes of diffusion were somewhat different than those of agriculture.
The diffusion of agriculture and later of iron was accompanied by a great movement of people who may have carried these innovations.
In fact, a lack of understanding concerning the purposes of Egyptian art has often led it to be compared unfavorably with the art of other cultures: Why did the Egyptians not develop sculpture in which the body turned and twisted through space like classical Greek statuary?
By the late fourth millennium B.C., there is already evidence of large culture zones reaching from Eastern Europe to the western borders of Mongolia.
Anatolia, but among the foraging communities of the cultures in the region of the Don and Dnieper rivers, which took up stock breeding and began to exploit the neighboring steppes.
The story of the westward movement of population in the United States is, in the main, the story of the expansion of American agriculture  of the development of new areas for the raising of livestock and the cultivation of wheat, corn, tobacco, and cotton.
These roads made possible a reduction in transportation costs and thus stimulated the commercialization of agriculture along their routes.
Agriculture developed slowly among populations that had an extensive knowledge of plants and animals.
Changing from hunting and gathering to agriculture had no immediate advantages.
Traditionally, it was believed that the transition to agriculture was the result of a worldwide population crisis.
It was argued that once hunter-gatherers had occupied the whole world, the population started to grow everywhere and food became scarce; agriculture would have been a solution to this problem.
It could be argued, however, that these conditions are not sufficient to explain the origins of agriculture.
Earth had experienced previous periods of climatic change, and yet agriculture had not been developed.
The fact that some societies domesticated animals and plants, discovered the use of metal tools, became literate, and developed a state should not make us forget that others developed pastoralism or horticulture (vegetable gardening) but remained illiterate and at low levels of productivity; a few entered the modern period as hunting and gathering societies.
It is anthropologically important to inquire into the conditions that made some societies adopt agriculture while others remained hunter-gatherers or horticulturalists.
However, it should be kept in mind that many societies that knew of agriculture more or less consciously avoided it.
Agriculture and fishing formed the primary sector of the economy in the Netherlands in the seventeenth century.
Dutch agriculture was modernized and commercialized new crops and agricultural techniques raised levels of production so that they were in line with market demands, and cheap grain was imported annually from the Baltic region in large quantities.
In addition to dairy farming and cultivating industrial crops, a third sector of the Dutch economy reflected the way in which agriculture was being modernized-horticulture.
This changed in the early part of the seventeenth century when horticulture became accepted as an agricultural sector.
Dutch agriculture was finally affected by the general agricultural crisis in Europe during the last two decades of the seventeenth century.
However, what is astonishing about this is not that Dutch agriculture was affected by critical phenomena such as a decrease in sales and production, but the fact that the crisis appeared only relatively late in Dutch agriculture.
Dutch peasants were able to remain unaffected by this crisis for a long time because they had specialized in dairy farming industrial crops, and horticulture.
In order to create a sense of structure to this picture, researchers have relied on a distinction that still underlies the forms of much indigenous visual culture  a distinction between geometric and figurative elements.
The vast majority of its population remained active in agriculture, even those people living within the city itself.
This growth was achieve as the result of the collective decisions of thousands of peasants families to expand the amount of land they cultivated, clear and plant new land, or adopt more intensive methods of agriculture.
Evidence suggests that an important stimulus behind the rise of early civilizations was the development of settled agriculture, which unleashed a series of changes in the organization of human communities that culminated in the rise of large ancient empires.
As time went on, such communities gradually learned how to direct the flow of water to enhance the productive capacity of the land, while the introduction of the iron plow eventually led to the cultivation of heavy soils not previously susceptible to agriculture.
The spread of this river valley agriculture in various parts of Asia and Africa was the decisive factor in the rise of the first civilizations.
Commercial agriculture transformed this remarkable treeless environment.
Hierarchies that did not exist in earlier foraging groups but that were helpful in structuring cooperative labor and in organizing more-complex technologies probably became established, even before domestication and agriculture, as pre-Neolithic societies (before the tenth millennium B C E) reacted to the population increase.
The raccoon  s expansion in various areas may also be due to the spread of agriculture.
The expansion of agriculture, however, does not necessarily lead to rapid increases in their abundance.
They have also expanded into many areas lacking any agriculture other than grazing and into places without forests or permanent streams.
Now used in agriculture, there are approximately 109 million acres of transgenic crops grown worldwide, 68 percent of which are in the United States.
It was the harmonious blending of all of these elements that was to produce the classical culture of Athens.
It was precisely this opportunity to participate in public life that provided a stimulus for the briar unfolding of classical Greek culture.
In many respects, such as education, occupation, and leisure activities, their life is like that of other groups that contribute to the diverse social fabric of North American culture in the twenty-first century.
Greek philosophy  or even a focus on conscience  might complement religion but was no substitute for it, and this made Greeks receptive to the religious systems of the Middle East, even if they never adopted them completely The combination of the religious instinct of Asia with the philosophic spirit of Greece spread across the world in the era after Alexander  s death, blending the culture of the Middle East with the culture of Greece.
The commercial changes of the eleventh through fourteenth centuries did however, lay the economic foundation for the development of urban life and culture.
In the most extreme instances, natives literally bought the whole package of Roman culture.
A visitor from Rome would have recognized its owner as a participant in the contemporary culture of the empire, not at all provincial in taste.
Even if those from the traditional families looked down on him, they would have been unable to dismiss him as uncultured.
Productivity in agriculture was also improved by capital investments, first of all in irrigation.
Thus the rising population was fed by a more intensive agriculture, applying more labor and fertilizer to the land.
