The same thing happens to this day, though on a smaller scale, wherever a sediment-laden river or stream emerges from a mountain valley onto relatively flat land, dropping its load as the current slows: the water usually spreads out fanwise, depositing the sediment in the form of a smooth, fan-shaped slope.
In the 1930s, wells encountered plentiful water at a depth of about 15 meters; currently, they must be dug to depths of 45 to 60 meters or more.
It is estimated that at current withdrawal rates, much of the aquifer will run dry within 40 years.
In 1947 Norwegian adventurer Thor Heyerdahl drifted on a balsa-log raft westward with the winds and currents across the Pacific from South America to prove his theory that Pacific islanders were Native Americans (also called American Indians).
Contrary to these theorists, the overwhelming evidence of physical anthropology, linguistics, and archaeology shows that the Pacific islanders came from Southeast Asia and were skilled enough as navigators to sail against the prevailing winds and currents.
Detailed studies of the winds and currents using computer simulations suggest that drifting canoes would have been a most unlikely means of colonizing the Pacific.
Plants with large, buoyant seeds  like coconuts  drift on ocean currents and are washed up on the shores.
One of the most difficult aspects of deciding whether current climatic events reveal evidence of the impact of human activities is that it is hard to get a measure of what constitutes the natural variability of the climate.
Some current analyses conclude that volcanoes and solar activity explain quite a considerable amount of the observed variability in the period from the seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries, but that they cannot be invoked to explain the rapid warming in recent decades.
The leatherback accomplishes this by arranging the blood vessels in the base of its flipper into a countercurrent exchange system.
In a countercurrent exchange system, the blood vessels carrying cooled blood from the flippers run close enough to the blood vessels carrying warm blood from the body to pick up some heat from the warmer blood vessels; thus, the heat is transferred from the outgoing to the ingoing vessels before it reaches the flipper itself.
The leatherback is certainly not the only animal with such an arrangement; gulls have a countercurrent exchange in their legs.
Hatchlings are simply too small to conserve body heat, even with insulation and countercurrent exchange systems.
Many scientists have therefore concluded that a sixth great mass extinction is currently in progress.
There are several hypotheses, including warming or cooling of Earth, changes in seasonal fluctuations or ocean currents, and changing positions of the continents.
Evidence points to hunting by humans and habitat destruction as the likely causes for the current mass extinction.
The late Cretaceous extinction of the dinosaurs and ammonoids was just one of the more drastic in a whole series of such recurrent extinction episodes.
Debris thrown into the atmosphere by an asteroid collision would presumably contain large amounts of iridium, and atmospheric currents would carry this material all over the globe.
About 2 percent of Earth  s water is currently frozen as ice.
This fact was of enormous value in helping the national economies find their niches in the evolving currents of the international economy.
Then updraft wind currents carry the light, positively charged ice crystals up to the top of the cloud.
Then a strong current of electrons follows that path from the cloud to the ground, and it is that current that illuminates the channel as the lightning we see.
The residence time is an average; the time spent in the lake by a given molecule (if we could follow its fate) would depend on the route it took: it might flow through as part of the fastest, most direct current, or it might circle in a backwater for an indefinitely long time.
Unlike aquatic and marine forms, land plants cannot always rely on water currents to carry their sex cells and disperse their fertilized eggs.
For example, given the current position of the Pacific Plate, Hawaii is above the Pacific Ocean hot spot.
The problem is that competition ordinarily cannot be observed directly but must be inferred from the spread or increase of one species and the concurrent reduction or disappearance of another species.
Consequently, children of a particular age cannot be expected to master educational material without taking into account their current level of cognitive development.
Perhaps the most serious concern about the transgenic crop plants currently in use is that they encourage farmers to move farther away from sustainable agricultural farming practices, meaning ones that allow natural resources to continually regenerate over the long run.
The species of moa that are currently recognized occupied ecological niches customarily filled elsewhere by large mammalian browsing herbivores.
However, the main forest burning started around 700 years ago, after what current archaeological evidence indicates was the most intensive stage of moa hunting.
Each island was bom from underwater volcanoes and was gradually covered by organisms derived from strays that rode the ocean currents and winds from other islands and continents.
When the current approaches the equator, the westward-flowing trade winds cause nutrient-rich cold water along the coast to rise from deeper depths to more shallow ones.
Every year during the months of December and January, a weak, warm countercurrent replaces the normally cold coastal waters.
While the warm-water countercurrent usually lasts for two months or less, there are occasions when the disruption to the normal flow lasts for many months.
This results in a warm surface current that moves east to west at the equator.
The most significant is water motion: currents and waves.
The slowing of wave action and currents means that seagrass beds tend to accumulate sediment.
However, this is not universal and depends on the currents under which the bed exists.
Seagrass beds under the influence of strong currents tend to have many of the lighter particles, including seagrass debris, moved out, whereas beds in weak current areas accumulate lighter detrital material.
In the near-surface layers, there are many large, fast carnivores as well as an immense variety of planktonic animals, which feed on plankton (small, free-floating plants or animals) by filtering them from currents of water that pass through a specialized anatomical structure These filter-feeders thrive in the well-illuminated surface waters because oceans have so many very small organisms, from bacteria to large algae to larval crustaceans.
Filtering seawater for its particulate nutritional content can be an energetically demanding method of feeding, particularly when the current of water to be filtered has to be generated by the organism itself, as is the case for all planktonic animals.
