The data they present suggest that the animals portrayed in the cave paintings were mostly the ones that the painters preferred for meat and for materials such as hides.
Speculation on the origin of these Pacific islanders began as soon as outsiders encountered them, in the absence of solid linguistic, archaeological, and biological data, many fanciful and mutually exclusive theories were devised.
In 1970 geologists Kenneth J. Hsu and William B.F. Ryan were collecting research data while aboard the oceanographic research vessel Glomar Challenger.
Although initially appealing, the hypothesis of a simple climatic change related to sea levels is insufficient to explain all the data.
Other researchers go even further, suggesting that the data provide evidence for large open expenses of water on the early Martian surface.
Furthermore, Mars Global Surveyor data released in 2003 seem to indicate that the Martian surface contains too few carbonate rock layers  layers containing compounds of carbon and oxygen  that should have been formed in abundance in an ancient ocean.
However, more recent data imply that at least some parts of the planet did in fact experience long periods in the past during which liquid water existed on the surface.
Information on temperature, rainfall, and other aspects of the climate that can be inferred from the systematic changes in properties is usually referred to as proxy data.
Studies suggest that to date the variability in computer simulations is considerably smaller than in data obtained from the proxy records.
The studies are complicated by the fact that the data are sometimes contradictory and the mechanisms apparently change from time to time.
This prediction was supported by data collected in one survey of 24 species from an Arizona forest, more evidence that predator pressure favors the evolution of begging calls that are hard to detect and pinpoint.
Therefore, when observational assessment is used as a technique for studying infant perceptual abilities, care must be taken not to overgeneralize from the data or to rely on one or two studies as conclusive evidence of a particular perceptual ability of the infant.
The data showed that yawning tended to occur about 15 minutes before a period of increased behavioral activity.
The most significant data have come from a concentration on three major questions.
Wilson  s analysis of these data is now a central part of plate tectonics.
His azoic zone, then, was a plausible but wild extrapolation from pioneering but feeble data. 
More recent data, however, provide additional support for Kettleweir  s ideas about natural selection.
Cuneiform texts on science, astronomy, medicine, and mathematics abound, some offering astoundingly precise data.
To make Montana  s low-altitude ponderosa pine forest as an example, historical records, plus counts of annual tree rings and datable fire scars on tree stumps, demonstrated that a ponderosa pine forest experiences a lightning-lit fire about once a decade under natural conditions (i.e.., before fire suppression began around 1910 and became effective after 1945).
The tropics contain a larger surface area of land than higher latitudes  a fact that is not always evident when we examine commonly used projections of Earth's curved surface, since this tends to exaggerate the areas of land in the higher latitudes-and some biogeographers regard the differences in diversity as a reflection of this effect But an analysis of the data by biologist Klaus Rohde does not support this explanation.
A mixture of continuous but thin vegetation supporting herds of large mammals is one that seems plausible and realistic with the available data.
One of the first studies to provide data supporting a relationship between diversity and stability examined how grassland plants responded to a drought.
Confronted with a multitude of unreliable figures, economists have compared the population records with the aggregate data for cultivated land area and grain production in the six centuries since 1368.
