The theater, then, is one tool whereby people define and understand their world or escape from unpleasant realities.
The client who pays for the building and defines its function is an important member of the architectural team.
Stability can be defined as simply lack of change.
Alternatively, stability can be defined as the speed with which an ecosystem returns to a particular form following a major disturbance, such as a fire.
Even the kind of stability defined as simple lack of change is not always associated with maximum diversity.
Polynesia is the central Pacific area in the great triangle defined by Hawaii, Easter Island, and New Zealand.
Becoming a reflective practitioner requires extra work (Jaworski, 1993) and has only vaguely defined goals with, perhaps, little initially perceivable reward and the threat of vulnerability.
An annual rainfall of four inches is often used to define the limits of a desert.
Even more important, primary groups define social reality for us by structuring our experiences.
A maritime code known as the Consulate of the Sea, which originated in the western Mediterranean region in the fourteenth century, won acceptance by a majority of sea goers as the normative code for maritime conduct; it defined such matters as the authority of a ship's officers, protocols of command, pay structures, the rights of sailors, and the rules of engagement when ships met one another on the sea-lanes.
Play is easier to define with examples than with concepts.
These underestimated the actual age by factors of 10 to 50 because much of the sedimentary record is missing in various locations and because there is a long rock sequence that is older than half a billion years that is far less well defined in terms of fossils and less well preserved.
This development resulted in a change in the social and economic equations that defined those societies.
While the last of these possible causes remains speculative, define clues exist for the action of the first two causes.
Intricate market networks channeled supplies along well-defined routes.
Biologist Ernst Mayr defined a species as "an actually or potentially interbreeding population that does not interbreed with other such populations when there is opportunity to do so."
Petroleum is defined as a gaseous, liquid, and semisolid naturally occurring substance that consists chiefly of hydrocarbons (chemical compounds of carbon and hydrogen).
Across regular, well- defined trade routes along the Baltic and North seas, the ships of league cities carried furs, wax, copper, fish, grain, timber, and wine.
