Thus, the recalling of an event (a hunt, battle, or other feat) is elaborated through the narrator  s pantomime and impersonation and eventually through each role being assumed by a different person.
For the price of 25 cents (or 5 cents per machine), customers moved from machine to machine to watch five different films (or, in the case of famous prizefights, successive rounds of a single fight).
In the phonograph parlors, customers listened to recordings through individual ear tubes, moving from one machine to the next to hear different recorded speeches or pieces of music.
They are designed to withstand the forces of compression (pushing together), tension (pulling apart), bending, or a combination of these in different parts of the structure.
Even if the new population is of a different species, it can approximately fill the niche vacated by the extinct population and keep the food web intact.
These fossil beds provide evidence of about 32 modern animal groups, plus about 20 other animal body forms that are so different from any modern animals that they cannot be assigned to any one of the modern groups.
As he collected fossils from strata throughout England, Smith began to see that the fossils told a different story from the rocks.
The world looks very different to a person whose head is only two or three feet above the ground than to one whose head is five or six feet above it.
Iron came from West Asia, although its routes of diffusion were somewhat different than those of agriculture.
Trade between the West and the settled and prosperous Chinese dynasties introduced new forms and different technologies.
Long and often lyrical descriptions of the different types of ware exist that assist in classifying pots, although these sometimes confuse an already large and complicated picture.
What we do know is that as we include longer time intervals, the record shows increasing evidence of slow swings in climate between different regimes.
The function of these is quite different.
New color processes, larger or differently shaped screen sizes, multiple-screen projections, even television, were among the developments invented or tried out during the period, sometimes with startling success.
This is useful for irrigation, but the high temperatures, low humidities, and different day lengths of the dry season, compared to the normal growing season, can present difficulties with some crops.
For different individual horseshoe crabs, the circadian period ranged from 22.2 to 25.5 hours.
Yet despite this synchronization of the period of the internal cycle, the animal's timer itself continues to have its own genetically built-in period close to, but different from, 24 hours.
The infant may be responding to aspects of the stimulus different than those identified by the investigator.
If the infant fails to dishabituate and continues to show habituation with the new stimulus, it is assumed that the baby is unable to perceive the new stimulus as different.
Leatherbacks keep their body heat in three different ways.
Some of the proposed mechanisms required a very brief period during which all extinctions suddenly took place; other mechanisms would be more likely to have taken place more gradually, over an extended period, or at different times on different continents.
Each mass extinction may have had a different cause.
When the elements known at the time were ordered by increasing atomic mass, it was found that successive elements belonged to different chemical groups and that the order of the groups in this sequence was fixed and repeated itself at regular intervals.
Because there is no space in the periodic table between these two elements, Mendeleyev suggested that the atomic mass of indium be changed to a completely different value, where it would fill an empty space between cadmium and tin.
The isotopes of a given element have the same chemical properties but slightly different physical properties.
Both animals and plants have different appearances in these various lighting conditions.
This may require moving to different parts of the forest at different times of the day or under different weather conditions, or it may be achieved by changing color according to the changing light conditions.
A completely different theory holds that yawning assists in the physical development of the lungs early in life, but has no remaining biological function in adults.
The empirical evidence, such as it is, suggests an altogether different function for yawning  namely, that yawning prepares us for a change in activity level.
The emphasis of this new "community ecology" was on the composition and structure of communities consisting of different species.
Although aragonite has the same composition as the more familiar mineral known as calcite, it has a different crystal form, is relatively unstable, and in time changes to the more stable calcite.
Petrifaction may also involve a simultaneous exchange of the original substance of a dead plant or animal with mineral matter of a different composition.
Perhaps the explanation goes back to some ideas raised by influential Swiss psychologist Jean Piaget  namely, that children under age two years represent events in a qualitatively different form than older children do.
According to this line of thought, the verbal abilities that blossom in the two year old allow events to be coded in a form radically different from the action-based codes of the infant.
No doubt the ability to talk about one's past represents memory of a different level of complexity than simple recognition or recall.
A second and very different process was patented by the British inventor William Henry Talbot (1800-1877) in 1841.
The two processes produced very different results.
Martian craters are surrounded by ejecta (debris formed as a result of an impact) that looks quite different from its lunar counterparts.
Of today's different groups of algae, green algae are probably the most similar to ancestral plants.
Again, the good storage and cell wall molecules of red and brown algae are different.
The distribution of plants within different areas of desert is also controlled by water.
Uruk, for instance, had two patron gods  Anu, the god of the sky and sovereign of all other gods, and Inanna, a goddess of love and war  and there were others, patrons of different cities.
In the 1840s American geologist James Daly observed that the different Hawaii Islands seem to share a similar geologic evolution but are progressively more eroded, and therefore probably older, toward the northwest.
We know from rock paintings deep in the Sahara that the herders were soon selecting breeding animals to produce offspring with different horn shapes and hide colors.
What is more significant than any geographical spread is the access that different levels of society had to good-quality products.
When several individuals of the same species or of several different species depend on the same limited resource, a situation may arise that is referred to as competition.
Competition among the individuals of different species (interspecies competition) is a major concern of ecology.
If more than one species is competing for a scarce resource, the competing species usually switch to different alternative resources.
The physical structure of species competing for resources in the same ecological niche tends to gradually evolve in ways that allow them to occupy different niches.
The device appears to have evolved no later than the fifth century B.C., perhaps independently in different regions of the Middle and Far East. 
There was much debate on the relative efficiencies of different types of waterwheels.
The period from about 1650 until 1800 saw some excellent scientific and technical investigations of different designs.
A century later the picture was completely different: by then, the world had an electric industry, and a quarter of its generating capacity was water powered.
In one research study, two groups of young rats were raised under different conditions.
In most localities a given species of clam or coral persists essentially unchanged throughout a thick formation of rock, only to be replaced suddenly by a new and different species.
But close examination of those fossil deposits now reveals a somewhat different story.
If evolution had been a continuous, gradual process, one might expect that almost every fossil specimen would be slightly different from every other. 
In that study, each of eight different trilobite species was observed to undergo a gradual change in the number of segments    typically an increase of one or two segments over the whole time interval.
Similar exhaustive studies are required for many different kinds of organisms from many different periods.
This route to speciation is known as allopatry (  allo-   means   different  , and   patria   means   homeland  ).
Preschools---educational programs for children under the age of five---differ significantly from one country to another according to the views that different societies hold regarding the purpose of early childhood education.
For instance, in a cross-country comparison of preschools in China, Japan, and the United States, researchers found that parents in the three countries view the purpose of preschools very differently.
Both the rate of invasion and the rate of extinction vary greatly among different plant species.
Species succession in plant communities, i.e., the temporal sequence of appearance and disappearance of species is dependent on events occurring at different stages in the life history of a species.
If workers from two different colonies arrive at the prospective nest at the same time, they may fight for possession.
Many prehistorians believe that farming may have emerged in dependently in several different areas of the world when small communities, driven by increasing population and a decline in available food resources, began to plant seeds in the ground in an effort to guarantee their survival.
This in turn allowed the easy transfer of artistic ideas and motifs over great distances, from one medium to another, and in a different scale in ways that had been difficult, if not impossible, in the previous period. 
Many plants  one or more species of at least 68 different families  can secrete nectar even when they have no blossoms, because they bear extrafloral nectaries (structures that produce nectar) on stems, leaves, leaf stems, or other structures.
Extrafloral nectaries at the base of each sepal attract several kinds of insects, but 96 percent of them are ants, several different species of them.
This succession is different from typical terrestrial ecological succession in which various plants replace one another until finally a so-called climax community develops, which persists for many years.
Another suggested reason is the change in nutrient level over the year, with differing concentrations favoring different phytoplankton species.
These organic metabolites could, and probably do, include a number of different classes of organic compounds.
He collected hundreds of different species of animals, and he saw that they were distributed in eight different depth zones, each containing its own distinct assemblage of animal life, the way zones of elevation on the side of a mountain are populated by distinct sets of plants. 
If natural selection was the explanation, then there should be different survival rates for dark- and light-colored moths.
Such buildings were so different from any previous form of architecture that they quickly acquired a new name  the skyscraper.
The ancient Egyptians invented a different way of writing and a new substance to writ on --papyrus, a precursor of paper, made from a wetland plant.
This seems to be true for many different groups of animals and plants.
Callisto has not fully differentiated, meaning separated into layers of different density materials.
This fact surprised scientists, who expected that all the big icy moons would be differentiated It is much easier for an icy body to differentiate than for a rocky one, since the melting temperature of ice is so low.
Yet Callisto seems to have frozen solid before the process of differentiation was complete.
Ganymede is a differentiated world, like the terrestrial planets.
Why is Ganymede different from Callisto?
The Beringian landscape was very different from what it is today.
This script consists of simple shapes, basically just wedge shapes and lines that could easily be incised in soft clay with a reed or wooden stylus; scholars have dubbed it cuneiform from the wedge-shaped marks (cunei in Latin) that are its hallmark Although the ingredients are merely wedges and lines, there are hundreds of combinations of these basic forms that stand for different sounds or words.
Now and then these files include pieces of writing that are of a distinctly different order, writings that do not merely record some matter of fact but involve creative intellectual activity.
The jaw joints of many advanced herbivores, such as cows, lie at a different level than the tooth row, allowing transverse tearing, shredding, and compression of plant material.
Paleontologists would like to be much more specific about a dinosaur  s diet than simply differentiating carnivore from herbivore.
In addition, the juveniles inside the body cavity were of different sizes.
