The water was always laden with pebbles, gravel, and sand, known as glacial outwash, that was deposited as the flow slowed down. 
As a result, it may abandon or modify some rites.
For example, some early societies ceased to consider certain rites essential to their well-being and abandoned them, nevertheless, they retained as parts of their oral tradition the myths that had grown up around the rites and admired them for their artistic qualities rather than for their religious usefulness. 
It should be obvious that cetaceans  whales, porpoises, and dolphins  are mammals.
Basilosaurus was undoubtedly a fully marine whale with possibly nonfunctional, or vestigial, hind legs.
The structure of the backbone shows, however, that Ambulocetus swam like modern whales by moving the rear portion of its body up and down, even though a fluke was missing.
It was undoubtedly a whale that linked life on land with life at sea
There is little doubt, however, that desertification in most areas results primarily from human activities rather than natural processes.
The raising of livestock is a major economic activity in semiarid lands, where grasses are generally the dominant type of natural vegetation.
Excess water from irrigation sinks down into the water table.
The extreme seriousness of desertification results from the vast areas of land and the tremendous numbers of people affected, as well as from the great difficulty of reversing or even slowing the process.
Exhibitors, however, wanted to maximize their profits, which they could do more readily by projecting a handful of films to hundreds of customers at a time (rather than one at a time) and by charging 25 to 50 cents admission.
It suddenly became public  an experience that the viewer shared with dozens, scores, and even hundreds of others.
Structures can be analyzed in terms of how they deal with downward forces created by gravity.
Of course in early architecture  such as igloos and adobe structures  there was no such equipment, and the skeleton and skin were often one.
The doorways and windows are made possible by placing over the open spaces thick stone beams that support the weight from above.
Modern irrigation devices, each capable of spraying 4.5 million liters of water a day, have produced a landscape dominated by geometric patterns of circular green islands of crops.
Others, however, have adopted the philosophy that it is best to use the water while it is still economically profitable to do so and to concentrate on high-value crops such as cotton.
The incentive of the farmers who wish to conserve water is reduced by their knowledge that many of their neighbors are profiting by using great amounts of water, and in the process are drawing down the entire region  s water supplies.
To take an extreme example, farmlands dominated by a single crop are so unstable that one year of bad weather or the invasion of a single pest can destroy the entire crop.
The first problem is that ecologists do not all agree what   stability   means.
In general, diversity, by itself, does not ensure stability.
Mathematical models of ecosystems likewise suggest that diversity does not guarantee ecosystem stability  just the opposite, in fact.
A more complicated system is, in general, more likely than a simple system to break down.
A fifteen-speed racing bicycle is more likely to break down than a child  s tricycle.
Where the forest inhibits the growth of grass and other meadow plants, the black-tailed deer browses on huckleberry, salal, dogwood, and almost any other shrub or herb.
What keeps the black-tailed deer alive in the harsher seasons of plant decay and dormancy?
Deer may move from high-elevation browse areas in summer down to the lowland areas in late fall.
Even with snow on the ground, the high bushy understory is exposed; also snow and wind bring down leafy branches of cedar, hemlock, red alder, and other arboreal fodder. 
A recent Douglas biographer states:" The deer which once picturesquely dotted the meadows around the fort were gone [in 1832], hunted to extermination in order to protect the crops."
No doubt the numbers of deer declined still further.
So do the naturalistic paintings on slabs of stone excavated in southern Africa.
Water or steam may be pumped down adjacent wells to help push the oil out.
This scenario begins with the planting of hyperaccumulating species in the target area, such as an abandoned mine or an irrigation pond contaminated by runoff.
Melanesia, in the southwest Pacific, contains the large islands of New Guinea, the Solomons, Vanuatu, and New Caledonia.
The basic cultural requirements for the successful colonization of the Pacific islands include the appropriate boat-building, sailing, and navigation skills to get to the islands in the first place, domesticated plants and gardening skills suited to often marginal conditions, and a varied inventory of fishing implements and techniques.
Contrary to the arguments of some that much of the pacific was settled by Polynesians accidentally marooned after being lost and adrift, it seems reasonable that this feat was accomplished by deliberate colonization expeditions that set out fully stocked with food and domesticated plants and animals.
The undisputed pre-Columbian presence in Oceania of the sweet potato, which is a New World domesticate, has sometimes been used to support Heyerdahl  s   American Indians in the Pacific   theories.
However, this is one plant out of a long list of Southeast Asian domesticates.
Why does the fossil record not document the series of evolutionary changes during the evolution of animals?
Fossilization of soft-bodied animals is less likely than fossilization of hard-bodied animals, but it does occur.
Early in the eighteenth century, a pump had come into use in which expanding steam raised a piston in a cylinder, and atmospheric pressure brought it down again when the steam condensed inside the cylinder to form a vacuum.
Watt's steam engine soon showed what it could do.
The ready availability of coal inspired William Murdoch during the 1790s to develop the first new form of nighttime illumination to be discovered in a millennium and a half.
Coal gas rivaled smoky oil lamps and flickering candles, and early in the new century, well-to-do Londoners grew accustomed to gaslit houses and even streets.
In 1831 when Smith was finally recognized by the Geological Society of London as the   father of English geology,   it was not only for his maps but also for something even more important.
What do you remember about your life before you were three?
The sheer passage of time does not account for it; adults have excellent recognition of pictures of people who attended high school with them 35 years earlier.
Another seemingly plausible explanation  that infants do not form enduring memories at this point in development  also is incorrect.
Nor does the hypothesis that infantile amnesia reflects repression  or holding back  of sexually charged episodes explain the phenomenon.
Demonstrations of infants   and toddlers' long-term memory have involved their repeating motor activities that they had seen or done earlier, such as reaching in the dark for objects, putting a bottle in a doll  s mouth, or pulling apart two pieces of a toy.
Telling such stories to two year olds does not seem to produce long-lasting verbalizable memories.
General knowledge of categories of events such as a birthday party or a visit to the doctor's office helps older individuals encode their experiences, but again, infants and toddlers are unlikely to encode many experiences within such knowledge structures.
Physiological immaturity may be part of why infants and toddlers do not form extremely enduring memories, even when they hear stories that promote such remembering in preschoolers.
Another task for the Glomar Challenger  s scientists was to try to determine the origin of the domelike masses buried deep beneath the Mediterranean seafloor.
Were they salt domes such as are common along the United States Gulf Coast, and if so, why should there have been so much solid crystalline salt beneath the floor of the Mediterranean? 
Later, under the weight of overlying sediments, this salt flowed plastically upward to form salt domes.
The Romans adopted Greek religion and moral philosophy.
Agriculture seems to have reached these people from the Near East, since the first domesticated crops were millets and sorghums whose origins are not African but west Asian.
The proposed areas of the domestication of African crops lie in a band that extends from Ethiopia across southern Sudan to West Africa.
Cattle were introduced from Asia, as probably were domestic sheep and goats.
Horses were adopted by peoples of the West African savannah, and later their powerful cavalry forces allowed them to carve out large empires.
How did this tremendous development take place, and why did it happen in the Teotihuac  n Valley?
The archaeological evidence clearly indicates, though, that Teotihuac  n was the center that did arise as the predominant force in the area by the first century A.D.
Many plants and animals disappear abruptly from the fossil record as one moves from layers of rock documenting the end of the Cretaceous up into rocks representing the beginning of the Cenozoic (the era after the Mesozoic).
They bear a strong resemblance to river systems on Earth, and geologists think that they are dried-up beds of long-gone rivers that once carried rainfall on Mars from the mountains down into the valleys.
They appear only in equatorial regions and generally do not form extensive interconnected networks.
Some scientists speculate that Mars may have enjoyed an extended early Period during which rivers, lakes, and perhaps even oceans adorned its surface.
But detractors maintain that the terracescould also have been created by geological activity, perhaps related to the geologic forces that depressed the Northern Hemisphere far below the level of the south, in which case they have nothing whatever to do with Martian water.
The first water craft theory about this migration was that around 11,000-12,000 years ago there was an ice-free corridor stretching from eastern Beringia to the areas of North America south of the great northern glaciers.
It was this midcontinental corridor between two massive ice sheets Cthe Laurentide to the east and the Cordilleran to the west Cthat enabled the southward migration.
But belief in this ice-free corridor began to crumble when paleoecologist Glen MacDonald demonstrated that some of the most important radiocarbon dates used to support the existence of an ice-free corridor were incorrect.
He persuasively argued that such an ice-free corridor did not exist until much later, when the continental ice began its final retreat. 
More recent geologic studies documented deglaciation and the existence of ice-free areas throughout major coastal areas of British Columbia, Canada, by 13,000 years ago.
Vast areas along the coast may have been deglaciated beginning around 16,000 years ago, possibly providing a coastal corridor for the movement of plants, animals, and humans sometime between 13,000 and 14,000 years ago. 
Spores light enough to float on the breezes were carried thousands of miles from more ancient lands and deposited at random across the bare mountain flanks.
But only those few spores that settle down in very favorable locations can start new life; the vast majority fall on barren ground.
They could travel through the air, float in water, and lie dormant for many months. 
To twentieth-century eyes, Chinese pottery may appear merely decorative, yet to the Chinese the form of each object and its adornment had meaning and significance.
Instrumental records do not go back far enough to provide us with reliable measurements of global climatic variability on timescales longer than a century.
What we do know is that as we include longer time intervals, the record shows increasing evidence of slow swings in climate between different regimes.
They can do only so much to represent the full complexity of the global climate and hence may give only limited information about natural variability.
Without this knowledge we can appreciate only the formal content of Egyptian art, and we will fail to understand why it was produced or the concepts that shaped it and caused it to adopt its distinctive forms.
Why do the artists seem to get left and right confused?
The answer to such questions has nothing to do with a lack of skill or imagination on the part of Egyptian artists and everything to do with the purposes for which they were producing their art. 
A planetarium is essentially a theater with a domelike ceiling onto which a night sky can be projected for any night of the year.
But when the dome was rotated, the birds changed their direction to match the artificial sky.
The young of ground-nesting warblers produce begging cheeps of higher frequencies than do their tree-nesting relatives.
These higher-frequency sounds do not travel as far, and so may better conceal the individuals producing them, who are especially vulnerable to predators in their ground nests.
Given that predators can make it costly to beg for food, what benefit do begging nestlings derive from their communications?
When experimentally deprived baby robins are placed in a nest with normally fed siblings, the hungry nestlings beg more loudly than usual  but so do their better-fed siblings, though not as loudly as the hungrier birds.
But the question arises, why don't nestlings beg loudly when they aren't all that hungry?
By doing so, they could possibly secure more food, which should result in more rapid growth or larger size, either of which is advantageous.
The answer lies apparently not in the increased energy costs of exaggerated begging  such energy costs are small relative to the potential gain in calories  but rather in the damage that any successful cheater would do to its siblings, which share genes with one another.
Much of the evidence about right-hand versus left-hand dominance comes from stencils and prints found in rock shelters in Australia and elsewhere, and in many Ice Age caves in France, Spain, and Tasmania.
Even though the paint was often sprayed on by mouth, one can assume that the dominant hand assisted in the operation.
One also has to make the assumption that hands were stenciled palm downward  a left hand stenciled palm upward might of course look as if it were a right hand.
Of 158 stencils in the French cave of Gargas, 136 have been identified as left, and only 22 as right; right-handedness was therefore heavily predominant.
Most engravings, for example, are best lit from the left, as befits the work of right-handed artists, who generally prefer to have the light source on the left so that the shadow of their hand does not fall on the tip of the engraving tool or brush.
Yet this most fundamental standard of historical periodization conceals a host of paradoxes.
Beyond that, the triumph of recorded sound has overshadowed the rich diversity of technological and aesthetic experiments with the visual image that were going forward simultaneously in the 1920s.
Regularly flowing rivers and streams that originate within arid lands are known as "endogenous."
Endogenous rivers often do not reach the sea but drain into inland basins, where the water evaporates or is lost in the ground.
Water does not remain immobile in an aquifer but can seep out at springs or leak into other aquifers.
More often, we simply cooperate with others to reach some end without endowing the relationship with any larger significance.
Expressive ties predominate in primary groups; we view the people as ends in themselves and valuable in their own right.
Instrumental ties predominate in secondary groups; we perceive people as means to ends rather than as ends in their own right.
The relations between animal activity and these periods, particularly for the daily rhythms, have been of such interest and importance that a huge amount of work has been done on them and the special research field of chronobiology has emerged.
Such an external cue not only coordinates an animal's daily rhythms with particular features of the local solar day but also  because it normally does so day after day-seems to keep the internal clock's period close to that of Earth's rotation.
Light has a predominating influence in setting the clock.
The Independent Television Commission, regulator of television advertising in the United Kingdom, has criticized advertisers for "misleadingness"  creating a wrong impression either intentionally or unintentionally  in an effort to control advertisers' use of techniques that make it difficult for children to judge the true size, action, performance, or construction of a toy.
Regarding the appearance of celebrities in advertisements that do not involve host selling, the evidence is mixed.
In addition, children feel validated in their choice of a product when a celebrity endorses that product.
That is, while there does tend to be a rainy season from May to October, there is also a dry season from January through April.
Although southern Maya areas received more rainfall than northern areas, problems of water were paradoxically more severe in the wet south.
In low-elevation north coastal areas without sinkholes, the Maya would have been able to get down to the water table by digging wells up to 75 feet (22 meters) deep.
But much of the south lies too high above the water table for cenotes or wells to reach down to it.
Archaeological evidence suggests that by 3000 B.C., and perhaps even earlier, there had emerged on the steppes of Inner Eurasia the distinctive types of pastoralism that were to dominate the region's history for several millennia.
While agriculturalists rely on domesticated plants, pastoralists rely on domesticated animals.
All else being equal, this means they must exploit larger areas of land than do agriculturalists to secure the same amount of food, clothing, and other necessities.
Perhaps the most striking sign of mobility is the fact that by the third millennium B.C., most pastoralists in this huge region spoke related languages ancestral to the modern Indo-European languages.
The remarkable mobility and range of pastoral societies explain, in part, why so many linguists have argued that the Indo-European languages began their astonishing expansionist career not among farmers in Anatolia (present-day Turkey), but among early pastoralists from Inner Eurasia.
Such theories imply that the Indo-European languages evolved not in Neolithic (10,000 to 3,000 B.C.)
Leatherbacks apparently do not generate internal heat the way we do, or the way birds do, as a by-product of cellular metabolism.
Large loggerhead and green turtles can maintain their body temperature at a degree or two above that of the surrounding water, and gigantothermy is probably the way they do it.
Leatherbacks do not have blubber, but they do have a reptilian equivalent: thick, oil-saturated skin, with a layer of fibrous, fatty tissue just beneath it.
There is not much that the turtle can do about this without compromising the aerodynamic shape of the flipper.
The solution is to allow the flippers to cool down without drawing heat away from the rest of the turtle  s body.
We do not know how old, or how large, a leatherback has to be before it can switch from a cold-blooded to a warm-blooded mode of life.
When the ice is thick enough, usually over 30 meters, the weight of the snow and firn will cause the ice crystals toward the bottom to become plastic and to flow outward or downward from the area of snow accumulation.
Glaciers move slowly across the land with tremendous energy, carving into even the hardest rock formations and thereby reshaping the landscape as they engulf, push, drag, and finally deposit rock debris in places far from its original location.
Production was generally in the hands of skilled individual artisans doing piecework under the tutelage of a master who was also the shop owner.
The growth of independent guilds was furthered by the fact that surplus was not a result of domestic craft production but resulted primarily from international trading; the government left working people to govern themselves, much as shepherds of tribal confederacies were left alone by their leaders.
The chameleon lizard has the most striking ability to do this.
Very little light filters through the canopy of leaves and branches in a rain forest to reach ground level  or close to the ground  and at those levels the yellow-to-green wavelengths predominate.
The piercing cries of the rhinoceros hornbill characterize the Southeast Asian rain forest, as do the unmistakable calls of the gibbons.
The tree provides a place to live for ants of the genus Pseudomyrmex.
In view of their later start and their lack of coal  undoubtedly the main reason they were not among the early industrializers  it is important to understand the sources of their success.
All exhibited moderate growth rates in the course of the century (Denmark the highest and Sweden the lowest), but all more than doubled in population by 1900.
In Denmark and Sweden agricultural reforms took place gradually from the late eighteenth century through the first half of the nineteenth, resulting in a new class of peasant landowners with a definite market orientation.
According to conventional theory, yawning takes place when people are bored or sleepy and serves the function of increasing alertness by reversing, through deeper breathing, the drop in blood oxygen levels that are caused by the shallow breathing that accompanies lack of sleep or boredom.
About the closest any research has come to supporting the tiredness theory is to confirm that adults yawn more often on weekdays than at weekends, and that school children yawn more frequently in their first year at primary school than they do in kindergarten.
Another flaw of the tiredness theory is that yawning does not raise alertness or physiological activity, as the theory would predict.
Experiments have also cast serious doubt on the belief that yawning is triggered by a drop in blood oxygen or a rise in blood carbon dioxide.
Another experiment demonstrated that physical exercise, which was sufficiently vigorous to double the rate of breathing, had no effect on the frequency of yawning.
Again the implication is that yawning has little or nothing to do with oxygen.
But, while accepting that not everything in life can be explained by Darwinian evolution, there are sound reasons for being skeptical of theories like this one, which avoid the issue of what yawning does for adults.
It is almost certainly doing something significant in adults as well as in fetuses.
This accords with anecdotal evidence that people often yawn in situations where they are neither tired nor bored, but are preparing for impending mental and physical activity.
Their yawning seems to have nothing to do with sleepiness or boredom  quite the reverse  but it does precede a change in activity level.
The coming together of the oppositely charged particles neutralizes the electrical tension and releases a tremendous amount of energy, which we see as lightning.
Some of the demand for the services and goods was no doubt fulfilled by people drawn from far afield, but some local people certainly became entwined in this new economy.
An abandoned field, for instance, will be invaded successively by herbaceous plants (plants with little or no woody tissue), shrubs, and trees, eventually becoming a forest.
Succession is influenced by many factors: the nature of the soil, exposure to sun and wind, regularity of precipitation, chance colonizations, and many other random processes.
With "climax," "biome," "superorganism," and various other technical terms for the association of animals and plants at a given locality being criticized, the term "ecosystem" was more and more widely adopted for the whole system of associated organisms together with the physical factors of their environment.
The ecologist is concerned primarily with the quantities of matter and energy that pass through a given ecosystem, and with the rates at which they do so.
Although the ecosystem concept was very popular in the 1950s and 1960s, it is no longer the dominant paradigm.
During glaciations, the lighter oxygen-16 has a greater tendency to evaporate from the ocean surface than the heavier oxygen-18 does.
By 8200B.C., drought conditions were so severe that the people abandoned their long-established settlement, perhaps dispersing into smaller camps.
Then, about 7000 B.C., within the space of a few generations, they switched abruptly to herding domesticated goats and sheep and to growing einkorn, pulses, and other cereal grasses.
It was a close-knit community of rectangular, one-story mud-brick houses, joined by narrow lanes and courtyards, finally abandoned about 5000 B.C..
Many complex factors led to the adoption of the new economies, not only at Abu Hureyra, but at many other locations such as 'Ain Ghazal, also in Syria, where goat toe bones showing the telltale marks of abrasion caused by foot tethering (binding) testify to early herding of domestic stock.
The water is usually naturally occurring groundwater that seeps down along fractures in the rock; less typically, the water is artificially introduced by being pumped down from the surface.
The latter two sources are limited to those few areas where surface water seeps down through underground faults or fractures to reach deep rocks heated by the recent activity of molten rock material.
The rocks are fractured by water pumped down at very high pressures.
To start with, it forced the population to abandon the nomad's life and become sedentary, to develop methods of storage and, often, systems of irrigation.
It would appear that the instability of the climatic conditions led populations that had originally been nomadic to settle down and develop a sedentary style of life, which led in turn to population growth and to the need to increase the amount of food available.
The fact that some societies domesticated animals and plants, discovered the use of metal tools, became literate, and developed a state should not make us forget that others developed pastoralism or horticulture (vegetable gardening) but remained illiterate and at low levels of productivity; a few entered the modern period as hunting and gathering societies.
It is anthropologically important to inquire into the conditions that made some societies adopt agriculture while others remained hunter-gatherers or horticulturalists.
Perhaps the explanation goes back to some ideas raised by influential Swiss psychologist Jean Piaget  namely, that children under age two years represent events in a qualitatively different form than older children do.
It is interesting to note that some studies show Caucasian American children have earlier childhood memories than Korean children do.
Furthermore, other studies show that Caucasian American mother-child pairs talk about past events three times more often than do Korean mother-child pairs.
Thus, the types of social experiences children have do factor into the development of autobiographical memories.
Once children become capable of answering such questions as "What does it mean to remember?"
and "What does it mean to know something?"
No doubt the ability to talk about one's past represents memory of a different level of complexity than simple recognition or recall.
It is the dominant native species of the lower salt marshes along these coasts, where it grows in the intertidal zone (the area covered by water some parts of the day and exposed others).
As the seaweed and marsh grass leaves die, bacteria break down the plant material, and insects, small shrimplike organisms, fiddler crabs, and marsh snails eat the decaying plant tissue, digest it, and excrete wastes high in nutrients.
In New Zealand the plant has spread rapidly, changing mudflats with marshy fringes to extensive salt meadows and reducing the number and kinds of birds and animals that use the marsh.
Even with a massive effort, it is doubtful that complete eradication of Spartina from nonnative habitats is possible, for it has become an integral part of these shorelines and estuaries during the last 100 to 200 years.
However, studies of the textures of inclusions reveal that the order in which the minerals appeared in the inclusions varies from inclusion to inclusion, and often does not match the theoretical condensation sequence for those metals.
After all, the Sun has many more atoms of any element, say iron, than does a meteorite specimen, but the ratios of iron to silicon in the two kinds of matter might be comparable.
The first is the heat capacity of the materials that constitute the city, which is typically dominated by concrete and asphalt.
The second factor is that radiant heat coming into the city from the Sun is trapped in two ways: (1) by a continuing series of reflection among the numerous vertical surfaces that buildings present and (2) by the dust dome, the cloudlike layer of polluted air that most cities produce.
Shortwave radiation from the Sun passes through the pollution dome more easily than outgoing longwave radiation does; the latter is absorbed by the gaseous pollutants of the dome and reradiated back to the urban surface. 
The high prices encouraged the peasants to improve their animal husbandry techniques; for example, they began feeding their animals indoors in order to raise the milk yield of their cows.
The frequency with which certain simple motifs appear in these oldest sites has led rock-art researchers to adopt a descriptive term  the Panaramitee style  a label which takes its name from the extensive rock pavements at Panaramitee North in desert South Australia, which are covered with motifs pecked into the surface.
And has not twentieth-century art shown that naturalism does not necessarily follow abstraction in some kind of predetermine sequence?
Where does the water in a lake come from, and how does water leave it?
If the former are greater, the lake is a surface-water-dominated lake; if the latter, it is a seepage-dominated lake.
For example, a pond in hilly country that maintains a steady water level all through a dry summer in spite of having no streams flowing into it must obviously be seepage dominated.
Conversely, a pond with a stream flowing in one end and out the other, which dries up when the stream dries up, is clearly surface water dominated.
By whatever means, a lake is constantly gaining water and losing water: its water does not just sit there, or, anyway, not for long.
The slowing down of water renewal leads to a chain of further consequences; it causes dissolved chemicals to become increasingly concentrated, and this, in turn, has a marked effect on all living things in the lake.
Yet because of the physics of lying down, the stomach applies weight against the diaphragm and makes it more difficult for the diaphragm to do its job.
Abandoning small extended-family households to move into these large pueblos with dozens if not hundreds of other people was probably traumatic.
In this case, push explanations dominate.
As densities increased, domestic architecture became larger, culminating in crowded pueblos.
First, Venic's intermediary functions in the Adriatic Sea, where it had dominated the business of shipping for other parties, were lost to direct trading.
Even though sailors' wages doubled among the northern Italian cities from 1550 to 1590, this did not elicit an increased supply.
The step from buying foreign timber to buying foreign ships was regarded as a short one, especially when complaints were heard in the latter sixteenth century that the standards and traditions of the Arsenale were running down.
Work was stretched out and done poorly.
The conventional explanation for the loss of Venetian dominance in trade is establishment of the Portuguese direct sea route to the East, replacing the overland Silk Road from the Black sea and the highly profitable Indian Ocean-caravan-eastern Mediterranean route to Venice.
Prices of spices delivered by ship from the eastern Mediterranean came to equal those of spices transported by Paortuguese vessels, but the increase in quantity with both routes in operation drove the price far down.
In addition, other lines of evidence support the hypothesis that land plants evolved from ancestral green algae used the same type of chlorophyll and accessory pigments in photosynthesis as do land plants.
Green algae store food as starch, as do land plants and have cell walls made of cellulose, similar in composition to those of land plants.
Some areas, because of their soil texture, topographical position, or distance from rivers or groundwater, have virtually no water available to plants, whereas others do.
The seeds then lie dormant until the next wet year, when the desert blooms again.
It is not unusual for the roots of some desert perennials to extend downward more than ten meters.
These have adapted to the environment by the development of long taproots that penetrate downward until they approach the assured water supply provided by groundwater.
Animals also have to adapt to desert conditions, and they may do it through two forms of behavioral adaptation: they either escape or retreat.
Escape involves such actions as aestivation, a condition of prolonged dormancy, or torpor, during which animals reduce their metabolic rate and body temperature during the hot season or during very dry spells.
Once this was done and the silt carried down by the rivers was planted, the rewards were rich: four to five times what rain-fed earth would produce.
Texts dealing with economic matters predominated, as they always had done; but at this point works of theology, literature, history, and law also appeared.
But Uruk  s dominant size in the entire region, far surpassing that of other settlements, indicates that it was a regional center and a true city.
A variety of documentation indicates that certain goods, once made by a family member as one of many duties, were later made by skilled artisans.
When rolled over a soft material---primarily the clay of bullae (round seals), tablets, or clay lumps attached to boxes, jars, or door bolts---the scene would appear in relief, easily legible.
How do predetors affect populations of the prey animals?
As hare numbers fall, so do lynx numbers, as their food supply depleted.
Do increasing numbers of hares lead to overhavesting of plants, which in turn results in reduced hare populations, or do increasing numbers of lynx lead to overhavesting of hares?
Without predators, the species that is the best competitor for food, shelter, nesting sites, and other environmental resources tends to dominate and exclude the species with which it competes.
Above the water table is the vadose zone, through which rainwater percolates.
Water in the vadose zone drains down to the water table, leaving behind a thin coating of water on mineral grains.
The vadose zone supplies plant roots near the surface with water.
Groundwater flows downhill to topographic lows.
The newly domesticated animals behaved better, were easier to control, and may have enjoyed a higher birth rate, which in turn yielded greater milk supplies.
It is still unclear whether domesticated cattle were tamed independently in northern Africa or introduced to the continent from Southwest Asia.Whatever the source of the original tamed herds might have been, it seems entirely likely that much the same process of juxtaposition (living side by side) and control occurred in both Southwest Asia and northern Africa, and even in Europe, among peoples who had an intimate knowledge of the behavior of wild cattle.
The experiments with domestication probably occurred in many places, as people living in ever-drier environments cast around for more predictable food supplies.
By this time, the Saharan people were probably using domestic crops, experimenting with such summer rainfall crops as sorghum and millet as they moved out of areas where they could grow wheat, barley, and other Mediterranean crops.
These odors make buck rubs an important means of olfactory communication between deer.
The importance of olfactory communication (using odors to communicate) in the way of life of deer was documented by a study of captive adult mule deer a few decades ago, which noted that males rubbed their foreheads on branches and twigs, especially as autumn approached.
For instance, as we all know, dogs recognize each other via smell.
Third, older, more dominant bucks produce more buck rubs and probably deposit more glandular secretions on a given rub.
This would be an obvious advantage to wide-ranging deer, especially to a socially dominant buck when courting several adult females during the autumn rut.
However, it is impossible to do justice to Roman wares on the page, even when words can be backed up by photographs and drawings.
However, there is one exceptional dump, which does represent a very large part of the site's total history of consumption and for which an estimate of quantity has been produced.
This was a society with similarities to modern one  moving goods on a gigantic scale, manufacturing high-quality containers to do so, and occasionally, as here, even discarding them on delivery.
Furthermore, most species do not depend entirely on a single resource, if the major resource for a species becomes scarce, the species can usually shift to alternative resources.
The first documented English mill was in the eighth century, but three centuries later about 5,000 were recorded, suggesting that every settlement of any size had its mill.
But then steam power entered the scene, putting the whole future of waterpower in doubt.
From this primitive start, the electric industry grew during the final 20 years of the nineteenth century at a rate seldom if ever exceeded by any technology.
One of the problems is providing a clear definition of play is that it involves the same behaviors that take place in other circumstances---dominance, predation, competition, and real fighting.
Play has been studied most extensively in primates and canids(dogs).
Play allows a young animal to explore its environment and practice skills in comparative safety since the surrounding adults generally do not expect the young do deal with threats or predators.
They need to learn how to be dominant and submissive because each monkey might have to play either role in the future.
Dogs, for example, will wag their tails, get down on their front legs, and stick their behinds in the air to indicate   what follows is just for play  .
In 1972 paleontologists Stephen Jay Gould and Niles Eldredge challenged conventional wisdom with an opposing viewpoint, the punctuated equilibrium hypothesis, which posits that species give rise to new species in relatively sudden bursts, without a lengthy transition period.
The question about the rate of evolution must now be turned around: does evolution ever proceed gradually, or does it always occur in short bursts?
For example, Peter Sheldon  s studies of trilobites, a now extinct marine animal with a segmented body, offer a detailed glimpse into three million years of evolution in one marine environment.
No significant discontinuities were observed, leading Sheldon to conclude that environmental conditions were quite stable during the period he examined. 
But a lot more studies like Sheldon  s are needed before we can say for sure.
In Europe, before the introduction of the mechanical clock, people told time by sun (using, for example, shadow sticks or sun dials) and water clocks.
We do not know who invented this machine, or where.
These early versions were rudimentary, inaccurate, and prone to breakdown. 
One moves from the task-oriented time consciousness of the peasant (working one job after another, as time and light permit) and the time-filling busyness of the domestic servant (who always hand something to do) to an effort to maximize product per unit of time. 
For example, during past ice ages, glaciers advanced down through North America and Europe and gradually cut off parts of populations from one another.
First, at least some of the observed differences between the enzymes of the Atlantic and Pacific fish populations were not random but were the result of evolutionary adaptation.
Although graduates of Head Start programs tend to show immediate IQ gains, these increases do lot last.
Preschoolers who participate in Head Start are better prepared for future schooling than those who do not.
In addition, results from other types of preschool readiness programs indicate that those who participate and graduate are less likely to repeat grades, and they are more likely to complete school than readiness program, for every dollar spent on the program, taxpayers saved seven dollars by the time the graduates reached the age of 27. 
Though plenty of rain may fall on a savanna during the year, for at least part of the year little does, creating the drought stress ultimately favoring grasses.
Such conditions prevail throughout much of northern South America and Cuba, but many Central American savannas as well as coastal areas of Brazil and the island of Trinidad do not fit this pattern.
For example, savanna soils, like many rain forest soils, are typically oxisols(dominated by certain oxide minerals) and ultisols(soils containing no calcium carbonate), with a high acidity and notably low concentrations of such minerals as phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, and potassium, while aluminum levels are high.
Though most savannas are found on sites with poor soils(because of either moisture conditions or nutrient levels of both), poor soils can and do support lush rain forest. 
But in experimental areas protected from fire, a few perennial grass species eventually come to dominate, outcompeting all others.
There is generally little doubt that fire is a significant factor in maintaining savanna, certainly in most regions.
Success in colonization depends to a great extent on there being a site available for colonization---a safe site where disturbance by fire or by cutting down of trees has either removed competing species or reduced levels of competition and other negative interactions to a level at which the invading species can become established.
The rapid colonization of such sites after disturbance is undoubtedly in part a reflection of the large seed bank on the forest floor.
Such species generally grow rapidly and quickly dominate new sites, excluding other species with lower invasion and growth rates.
First, the opening of the kingdom to the full force of international trade by the Bowring Treaty (1855) rapidly encouraged economic specialization in the growing of rice, mainly to feed the rice-deficient portions of Asia (India and China in particular).
The average annual volume of rice exported from Siam grew from under 60 million kilograms per year in the late 1850s to more than 660 million kilograms per year at the turn of the century; and over the same period the average price per kilogram doubled.
This growth was achieve as the result of the collective decisions of thousands of peasants families to expand the amount of land they cultivated, clear and plant new land, or adopt more intensive methods of agriculture.
They were able to do so because of our second consideration.
Under these conditions, it made good sense to thousands of peasant families to in effect work full-time at what they had been able to do only part-time previously because of the requirement to work for the government: grow rice for the marketplace. 
Though these bees do no sting, rival colonies of some species fight fiercely over potential nesting sites.
They predicted that the colonies of aggressive species would show regular distributions, while those of nonaggressive species would show random or closely grouped (clumped) distribution.
They found that potential nest trees were distributed randomly through the study area.
The fifth species was not aggressive, and its nests were randomly distributed over the study area.
The two swarms abandoned the battle at about 8 or 9 A.M. each morning, only to re-form and begin again the next day just after dawn.
The first farmers, who may have lived as long as 10,000 years ago, undoubtedly used simple techniques and still relied primarily on other forms of food production, such as hunting, foraging, or pastoralism.
By means of their military prowess, dominant personalities, or political talents, these people gradually emerge as the leaders of that community.
Once the railroad came, farmers in the same counties grew 400,000 bushels (over 10,000 tons) and sold their crop at a dollar a bushel.
In 1840 most northwestern grain was shipped south down the Mississippi River to the bustling port of New Orleans.
But low water made steamboat travel hazardous in summer, and ice shut down traffic in winter.
Wheat, which in 1845 commanded $1.08 a bushel in New York City, fetched $2.46 in 1855; in similar fashion the price of corn nearly doubled.
Starting about 280 million years ago, reptiles were the dominant large animals in terrestrial environments.
However, no group or species can maintain its dominance indefinitely, and when, after over 200 million years, the age of dinosaurs came to a dramatic end about 65 million years ago, mammals began to flourish, evolving from relatively few types of small terrestrial animals into the myriad of diverse species, including bats and whales, that we know today.
It is now widely believed that at least some species of dinosaurs had a metabolic rate high enough for them to be endotherms (animals that maintain a relatively consistent body temperature by generating heat internally).
Nevertheless, climatic explanations for the K-T extinction are not really challenged by the ideas that dinosaurs may have been endothermic, because even endotherms can be affected by a significant change in the climate.
Within fifty years, the government in Baghdad was using paper for documents.
Rounded styles of Arabic handwriting had long been used for correspondence and documents alongside the formal angular scripts used for inscriptions and manuscripts of the Koran.
Wood was in ever-shorter supply, yet it remained tremendously important.
By 1640 most homes in London were heated with it, and it also provided heat for making beer, glass, soap, and other products.
Without their colorful corolla, flowers do not attract pollinators and are not fertilized.
They continue to do so as the flower develops and while the fruit matures.
Observations leave little doubt that ants protect morning glory flowers and fruits from the combined enemy force of grasshoppers, caterpillars, and seed beetles.
The ants prey on the adult beetles, disturb females as they lay their eggs on developing fruits, and eat many of the eggs they do manage to lay. 
One of the first recorded observers to surmise a long age for Earth was the Greek historian Herodotus, who lived from approximately 480 B.C.
More important than the amount of time Herodotus computed, which turns out to be trivial compared with the age of Earth, was the notion that one could estimate ages of geologic features by determining rates of the processes responsible for such features, and then assuming the rates to be roughly constant over time.
The effects of wind and water then break down the masses of uplifted rock, producing sediment that is transported by water downward to ultimately form layers in lakes, seashores, or even oceans.
It had been recognized by the German philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724-1804) that chemical reactions could not supply the tremendous amount of energy flowing from the Sun for more than about a millennium.
It was the discovery of radioactivity at the end of the nineteenth century that opened the door to determining both the Sun  s energy source and the age of Earth.
In Henry's view, the adoption of a more settled existence in areas with abundant food resources would have contributed to higher fertility levels among the sedentary foragers.
Hierarchies that did not exist in earlier foraging groups but that were helpful in structuring cooperative labor and in organizing more-complex technologies probably became established, even before domestication and agriculture, as pre-Neolithic societies (before the tenth millennium B C E) reacted to the population increase.
This change in the dominant species from season to season is called seasonal succession, and it occurs in a wide variety of locations.
Under seasonal succession, one or more species dominate the phytoplankton for a shorter or longer period of time and then are replaced by another set of species.
This may be one of the factors, but it is unlikely to be the sole cause because there are species that become dominant species at various temperatures.
Furthermore, temperature changes rather slowly in seawater, and the replacement of dominant species often is much more rapid.
But the effect of secretions by all the individuals of the dominant species can be significant both for themselves and for other species.
These organic metabolites could, and probably do, include a number of different classes of organic compounds.
In fact, for mature soils in many parts of the world, the predominant type of natural vegetation is considered the most important direct influence on soil characteristics.
Some bacteria produce organic acids that directly attack parent material, breaking it down and releasing plant nutrients.
These single-celled organisms are the most numerous representatives of the animal kingdom, and, like bacteria, a million or more can sometimes inhabit each cubic centimeter of soil.
In addition, mammals such as moles, field mice, gophers, and prairie dogs sometimes are present in sufficient numbers to have significant impact on the soil.
Modern soundings indicate he overestimated his depths by several hundred fathoms, but in any case Ross  s clam dove several times deeper than Forbes  s dredge.
Over a period of decades, dark-colored forms became an increasingly large fraction of some populations and eventually came to dominate peppered moth populations in certain areas  especially those of extreme industrialization such as the Ruhr Valley of Germany and the Midlands of England.
His two best-known followers, though there were undoubtedly others who attained less renown, were Anaximander and Anaximenes.
He doubted that the world and all its contents could be made of water and proposed instead a formless and unobservable substance he called   apeiron   that was the source of all matter.
With the door opened by Thales and the other early philosophers of Milestus, Greek thinkers began to speculate about the nature of the universe.
Is translocation successful if the individuals survive the first week or a year, or do they need to reproduce for one or several generations  Whatever the answer, it is clear that a general framework is required to ensure that any translocation is justified, has a realistic chance of success, and will be properly monitored and evaluated for the benefit of future efforts. 
On the other hand were purely utilitarian structures, such as factories and grain elevators, which employed modern materials such as steel girders and plate glass in an undisguised and unadorned manner.
However, instead of lenses made of glass, the transmission electron microscope uses electromagnets as lenses, as do all electron microscopes.
By now, their numbers have undoubtedly grown even more, as they have continued to expand into new habitats where they were once either rare or absent, such as sandy prairies, deserts, coastal marshes, and mountains.
The expansion of agriculture, however, does not necessarily lead to rapid increases in their abundance.
Farming in Kansas and eastern Colorado (central and western United States) proceeded rapidly in the 1870s and 1880s?
In addition, when glyphosate is used to control weeds, other, more persistent herbicides do not need to be applied.
They had to do with things like grain, goats, and real estate.
One tablet records the speed of the Moon over 248 days; another documents an early sighting of Halley  s Cornet, form September 22 to September 28, 164 B.C.E.
More esoteric texts attempt to explain old Babylonian customs, such as the procedure for curing someone who is ill, which included rubbing tar and gypsum on the sick person  s door and drawing a design at the foot of the person  s bed.
Finally, the Maori introduced the Polynesian rat and the dog to New Zealand.
Another factor is that the United States Forest Service in the first decade of the 1900s adopted the policy of fire suppression (attempting to put out forest fires) for the obvious reason that it did not want valuable timber to go up in smoke, or people  s homes and lives to be threatened.
When a fire finally does start in a sapling-choked forest, whether due to lightning or human carelessness or (regrettably often) intentional arson, the dense, tall saplings young trees) may become a ladder that allows the fire to jump into the crowns of the trees.
Foresters now identify the biggest problem in managing Western forests as what to do with those increased fuel loads that built up during the previous half century of effective fire suppression.
But no politician or voter wants to spend what it would cost to do that.
The tropics contain a larger surface area of land than higher latitudes  a fact that is not always evident when we examine commonly used projections of Earth's curved surface, since this tends to exaggerate the areas of land in the higher latitudes-and some biogeographers regard the differences in diversity as a reflection of this effect But an analysis of the data by biologist Klaus Rohde does not support this explanation.
However, the idea that amphibians have no control whatsoever over their body temperature has been proven false because their body temperature does not always correspond to the surrounding temperature.
While amphibians are poor thermoregulators, they do exercise control over their body temperature to a limited degree.
The gases that emanate from present-day volcanoes on Earth, such as Mount Saint Helens, are predominantly water vapor, carbon dioxide, and sulfur dioxide.
In fact, water probably once dominated the Venusian atmosphere.
Over time, the rising temperatures would have leveled off, solar ultraviolet radiation having broken down atmospheric water vapor molecules into hydrogen and oxygen.
Such redistribution was a basic element in chiefdoms.
For example, he argued that the introduction of domesticated vines and olives allowed a substantial expansion of land under cultivation and helped to power the emergence of complex society.
Biologist Ernst Mayr defined a species as "an actually or potentially interbreeding population that does not interbreed with other such populations when there is opportunity to do so."
Smaller, with a shorter tail that is white underneath, the white-tailed antelope squirrel inhabits deserts north of the canyon and west of the Colorado River in southern California.
Geographic isolation creates opportunities for new species to develop, but it does not necessarily lead to new species because speciation occurs only when the gene pool undergoes enough changes to establish reproductive barriers between the isolated population and its parent population.
When oceanic islands are far enough apart to permit populations to evolve in isolation, but dose enough to allow occasional dispersions to occur, they are effectively outdoor laboratories of evolution.
This focus on explaining dinosaur extinction misses an important point: the extinction at the end of the Cretaceous was a global event that killed off organisms up and down the food chain.
These included a variety of clams and snails, and especially the ammonites, a group of shelled squidlike creatures that dominated the Mesozoic seas and had survived many previous mass extinctions.
Such a huge mass traveling at such tremendous speeds carries an enormous amount of energy.
Ice on Callisto does not deform or flow like ice in glaciers on Earth.
The focus of life was the agora, the open marketplace where assemblies could be held and where issues of the day, as well as more fundamental topics such as the purpose of government or the relationship between law and freedom, could be discussed and decisions made by individuals in person.
Greek philosophy  or even a focus on conscience  might complement religion but was no substitute for it, and this made Greeks receptive to the religious systems of the Middle East, even if they never adopted them completely The combination of the religious instinct of Asia with the philosophic spirit of Greece spread across the world in the era after Alexander  s death, blending the culture of the Middle East with the culture of Greece.
Hence, because oil and water do not mix, water remains fastened to the quartz or carbonate grains, while oil occupies the central parts of the larger openings in the porous sandstone or limestone.
Most of the petroleum that forms in sediments does not find a suitable trap and eventually makes its way, along with groundwater, to the surface of the sea.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the highest ratio of oil and gas pools to volume of sediment is found in rock no older than 2.5 million years  young enough so that little of the petroleum has leaked away  and that nearly 60 percent of all oil and gas discovered so far has been found in strata that formed in the last 65 million years This does not mean that older rocks produced less petroleum; it simply means that oil in older rocks has had a longer time in which to leak away.
The cold Humboldt Current of the Pacific Ocean flows toward the equator along the coasts of Ecuador and Peru in South America.
During the past 60 years, at least ten El Nifios have been observed Not only do El Niftos affect the temperature of the equatorial Pacific, but the strongest of them impact global weather.
During a typical year, the eastern Pacific has a higher pressure than the western Pacific does.
Scientists try to document as many past El Nino events as possible by piecing together bits of historical evidence, such as sea-surface temperature records, daily observations of atmospheric pressure and rainfall, fisheries   records from South America, and the writings of Spanish colonists dating back to the fifteenth century.
Gills were undoubtedly the main source of oxygen for these fish, but the lungs served as an auxiliary breathing device for gulping air when the water became oxygen depleted, such as during extended periods of drought.
The fins were thick, fleshy, and quite sturdy, with a median axis of bone down the center.
What ecological pressures might have caused fishes to gradually abandon their watery habitat and become increasingly land-dwelling creatures?
Changes in climate during the Devonian may have had something to do with this if freshwater areas became progressively more restricted.
The image of the illuminated area outside the enclosure is thrown upside down as if by magic onto a surface in the darkened enclosure.
Aristotle also experimented with it in the fourth century B.C., and Leonardo da Vinci described it in his notebooks in 1490.
The room shown in it closely resembles the room in other Vermeer paintings, with lighting coming from a window on the left, the same roof beams, and similar floor tiles, suggesting that the room was fitted with a camera obscura on the side in the foreground.
He includes in this group Caravaggio, Hans Holbein, Leonardo da Vinci, Diego Velazquez, Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres, Agnolo Bronzino, and Jan van Eyck.
If these artists did use a camera obscura, does that diminish their stature?
Hockney argues that the camera obscura does not replace artistic skill in drawing and painting.
Seagrass meadows in relatively turbulent waters tend to form a mosaic of individual mounds, whereas meadows in relatively calm waters tend to form flat, extensive carpets.
On this archaeologists generally agree, but that is where the agreement stops One broad area of disagreement in explaining the peopling of the Americas is the domain of paleoecologists, but it is critical to understanding human history: what was Beringia like?
He makes this argument based on the anatomy of horse and bison, which do not have the ability to search for food through deep snow cover.
For the relatively few dominant tree species that make up temperate forests, where there are many individuals of the same species within pollen range, this is quite a safe gamble.
Wind pollination does, of course, require a lot of pollen.
Evergreen conifers, which do not shed their leaves, have less to gain from spring flowering, and, indeed, some flower in the autumn or winter.
These small fishes use their gill filaments to strain out the algae that dominate such areas.
Very large or long teeth provide almost no room for cutting the prey into a convenient size for swallowing, the fish must gulp the prey down whole.
In the Near East they remained in use for more than two and a half millennia, and in certain areas they lasted down to the beginning of the common era until finally yielding, once and for all, to more convenient alternatives.
For the scribes of these non-Sumerian languages, training was doubly demanding since they had to know the values of the various cuneiform signs for Sumerian as well as for their own language.
Its use soon widened to document the multitudinous things and acts that are involved in daily life, from simple inventories of commodities to complicated governmental rules and regulations.
The batches, some of which contain thousands of tablets, consist for the most part of documents of the types just mentioned: bills, deliveries, receipts, inventories, loans, marriage contracts, divorce settlements, court judgments, and so on.
Now and then these files include pieces of writing that are of a distinctly different order, writings that do not merely record some matter of fact but involve creative intellectual activity.
At cities such as Bruges and London, Hanseatic merchants secured special trading concessions, exempting them from all tolls and allowing them to trade at local fairs.
Hanseatic merchants established foreign trading centers, the most famous of which was the London Steelyard, a walled community with warehouses, offices, a church, and residential quarters for company representatives.
The nobility and churchmen determined the predominant social attitudes, values, and patterns of thought and behavior.
Scientific evidence to illuminate these ideas has been slow in coming, and many shadows remain.
Even if those from the traditional families looked down on him, they would have been unable to dismiss him as uncultured.
The sheer size of space enclosed within buildings like the basilica of London must have been astonishing.
This was an architecture of dominance in which subject peoples were literally made to feel small by buildings that epitomized imperial power.
Supremacy was accentuated by the unyielding straight lines of both individual buildings and planned settlements since these too provided a marked contrast with the natural curvilinear shapes dominant in the native realm.
They do best when the relative humidity in their nest is above 96 percent and the temperature is fairly high, an optimum of about 79  F for temperate zone species and about 86  F for tropical species.
From the attic, the air passes into the tunnels in the ridges and flows back down to the cellar.
Thus air that flows down into the cellar through the ridges is relatively rich in oxygen, and has lost much of its carbon dioxide.
Their physical structure is dominated by the skeletons of corals, which are carnivorous animals living off zooplankton.
Its surface forms an uneven and rather rough platform around the coast, about the level of low water, and its outer edge slopes downwards into the sea.
If we accept these totals, we are confronted with a situation in which the Chinese population doubled in the 50 years from 1790 to 1840.
If, with greater caution, we assume lower totals in the early eighteenth century and only 400 million in 1850, we still face a startling fact: something like a doubling of the vast Chinese population in the century before Western contact, foreign trade, and industrialization could have had much effect.
This technological advance took many forms: one was the continual introduction from the south of earlier-ripening varieties of rice, which made possible double-cropping (the production of two harvests per year from one field).
Animals such as house cats and dogs have large, stabbing canine teeth at the front of the mouth and smaller, equally sharp teeth farther back in their jaws.
The jaw joint of carnivores such as dogs and cats has the mechanical advantage of being at the same level as the tooth row, allowing the jaws to close with tremendous speed and forcing the upper teeth to occlude against the lower teeth with great precision.
Depending on the location, time of year, and time of day, any or all of the following differences between cities and their surroundings can be important: albedo (reflectivity of the surface), surface roughness, emissions of heat, emissions of moisture, and emissions of particles that affect net radiation and the growth of cloud droplets.
Additional city heat is given off at night (and during the day) by vehicles and factories, as well as by industrial and domestic heating and cooling units.
The release of heat energy is retarded by the tall vertical city walls that do not allow infrared radiation to escape as readily as does the relatively level surface of the surrounding countryside.
Overall, the heat island is strongest (1) at night when compensating sunlight is absent; (2) during the winter, when nights are longer and there is more heat generated in the city; and (3) when the region is dominated by a high-pressure area with light winds, clear skies, and less humid air.
This piling up of air over the city then slowly rises, much like toothpaste does when its tube is squeezed.
Pollutants from urban areas may even affect the weather downwind from them.
Raised beaches are remnants of former coastlines at higher levels relative to the present shoreline and visible, for instance, along the Californian coast north of San Francisco, the height of a raised beach above the present shoreline, however, does not generally give a straightforward indication of the height of a former sea level.
As Gutenberg, apart from getting the key idea, had to solve a lot of practical problems, including imposing paper and ink into the process and the actual printing itself, for which he adapted the screw press used by winemakers, it is amazing that his first product does not look at all rudimentary.
Before printing, only the very largest libraries, of which there were a dozen in Europe, had as many as 600 books.
Internally, Britain was endowed with easily navigable natural waterway, which helped its trade and communication with the world.
Beginning in the 1770  s, it enjoyed a boom in canal building, which helped make its domestic market more accessible.
In the sixteenth century enclosures were usually used for creating sheep pastures, but by the eighteenth century new farming techniques made it advantageous for large landowners to seek enclosures in order to improve agricultural production.
