Basilosaurus was undoubtedly a fully marine whale with possibly nonfunctional, or vestigial, hind legs.
It was undoubtedly a whale that linked life on land with life at sea
There is little doubt, however, that desertification in most areas results primarily from human activities rather than natural processes.
No doubt the numbers of deer declined still further.
In view of their later start and their lack of coal  undoubtedly the main reason they were not among the early industrializers  it is important to understand the sources of their success.
Experiments have also cast serious doubt on the belief that yawning is triggered by a drop in blood oxygen or a rise in blood carbon dioxide.
Some of the demand for the services and goods was no doubt fulfilled by people drawn from far afield, but some local people certainly became entwined in this new economy.
No doubt the ability to talk about one's past represents memory of a different level of complexity than simple recognition or recall.
Even with a massive effort, it is doubtful that complete eradication of Spartina from nonnative habitats is possible, for it has become an integral part of these shorelines and estuaries during the last 100 to 200 years.
But then steam power entered the scene, putting the whole future of waterpower in doubt.
There is generally little doubt that fire is a significant factor in maintaining savanna, certainly in most regions.
The rapid colonization of such sites after disturbance is undoubtedly in part a reflection of the large seed bank on the forest floor.
The first farmers, who may have lived as long as 10,000 years ago, undoubtedly used simple techniques and still relied primarily on other forms of food production, such as hunting, foraging, or pastoralism.
Observations leave little doubt that ants protect morning glory flowers and fruits from the combined enemy force of grasshoppers, caterpillars, and seed beetles.
His two best-known followers, though there were undoubtedly others who attained less renown, were Anaximander and Anaximenes.
He doubted that the world and all its contents could be made of water and proposed instead a formless and unobservable substance he called   apeiron   that was the source of all matter.
By now, their numbers have undoubtedly grown even more, as they have continued to expand into new habitats where they were once either rare or absent, such as sandy prairies, deserts, coastal marshes, and mountains.
Gills were undoubtedly the main source of oxygen for these fish, but the lungs served as an auxiliary breathing device for gulping air when the water became oxygen depleted, such as during extended periods of drought.
