In seeking to describe the origins of theater, one must rely primarily on speculation, since there is little concrete evidence on which to draw.
It is estimated that at current withdrawal rates, much of the aquifer will run dry within 40 years.
The incentive of the farmers who wish to conserve water is reduced by their knowledge that many of their neighbors are profiting by using great amounts of water, and in the process are drawing down the entire region  s water supplies.
Perhaps, like many contemporary peoples, Upper Paleolithic men and women believed that the drawing of a human image could cause death or injury, and if that were indeed their belief, it might explain why human figures are rarely depicted in cave art.
This theory is suggested by evidence of chips in the painted figures, perhaps made by spears thrown at the drawings.
They were concerned that many would be   drawn to these new, refreshing   conceptions of teaching only to find that the void between the abstractions and the realities of teacher reflection is too great to bridge.
Unlike short-term financial cooperation between investors for a single commercial undertaking, joint-stock companies provided permanent funding of capital by drawing on the investments of merchants and other investors who purchased shares in the company.
The solution is to allow the flippers to cool down without drawing heat away from the rest of the turtle  s body.
Some of the demand for the services and goods was no doubt fulfilled by people drawn from far afield, but some local people certainly became entwined in this new economy.
The oxygen isotope ratio of the ocean changes as a great deal of water is withdrawn from it by evaporation and is precipitated as snow to form glacial ice.
Why were these hundreds of thousands of settlers  most of them farmers, some of them artisans  drawn away from the cleared fields and established cities and villages of the East?
More than 20,000 apartments in France are now heated by warm underground water drawn from a heat reservoir in a geologic structure near Paris called the Paris Basin.
The surface of the ground can sink if hot groundwater is withdrawn without being replaced.
Geothermal energy is in a sense not renewable, because in most cases the heat would be drawn out of a reservoir much more rapidly than it would be replaced by the very slow geological processes by which heat flows through solid rock into a heat reservoir.
Ever since European first explored Australia, people have been trying to understand the ancient rock drawings and cavings created by the Aborigines, the original inhabitants of the continent.
However, it is impossible to do justice to Roman wares on the page, even when words can be backed up by photographs and drawings.
The arts of the Islamic book, such as calligraphy and decorative drawing, developed during A.D. 900 to 1500, and luxury books are some of the most characteristic examples of Islamic art produced in this period.
The increased availability of paper, particularly after 1250, encouraged people to develop systems of representation, such as architectural plans and drawings.
In the early 1760s, a gifted young Scot named James Watt was drawn to a critical study of the steam engine.
Anaximander is credited with drawing up the first world map of the Greeks and also with recognizing that Earth  s surface was curved.
More esoteric texts attempt to explain old Babylonian customs, such as the procedure for curing someone who is ill, which included rubbing tar and gypsum on the sick person  s door and drawing a design at the foot of the person  s bed.
Later, portable camera obscuras were developed, with interior mirrors and drawing tables on which the artist could trace the image.
For the artist, this technique allows forms and linear perspective to be drawn precisely as they would be seen from a single viewpoint.
When one of Vermeer  s paintings was X-rayed, it did not have any preliminary sketches on the canvas beneath the paint, but rather the complete image drawn in black and white without any trial sketches.
Hockney argues that the camera obscura does not replace artistic skill in drawing and painting.
In experimenting with it, he found that it is actually quite difficult to use for drawing, and he speculates that the artists probably combined their observations from life with tracing of shapes.
The drawback is that wind is obviously unspecific as to where it takes the pollen.
