Thus, the recalling of an event (a hunt, battle, or other feat) is elaborated through the narrator  s pantomime and impersonation and eventually through each role being assumed by a different person.
This is particularly true for trees in the middle and upper latitudes, which tend to attain greater heights on ridges, whereas in the tropics the trees reach their greater heights in the valleys.
The water evaporates and the salts are left behind, creating a white crustal layer that prevents air and water from reaching the underlying soil. 
Edison was more interested in the sale of Kinetoscopes (for roughly $1,000 apiece) to these parlors than in the films that would be run in them (which cost approximately $10 to $15 each).
Modern irrigation devices, each capable of spraying 4.5 million liters of water a day, have produced a landscape dominated by geometric patterns of circular green islands of crops.
The researchers Peter Ucko and Andree Rosenfeld identified three principal locations of paintings in the caves of western Europe: (1) in obviously inhabited rock shelters and cave entrances; (2) in galleries immediately off the inhabited areas of caves; and (3) in the inner reaches of caves, whose difficulty of access has been interpreted by some as a sign that magical-religious activities were performed there. 
Cave art seems to have reached a peak toward the end of the Upper Paleolithic period, when the herds of game were decreasing. 
When the well reaches a pool, oil usually rises up the well because of its density difference with water beneath it or because of the pressure of expanding gas trapped above it.
Offshore platforms may also lose oil, creating oil slicks that drift ashore and foul the beaches, harming the environment.
The Wilmington field near Long Beach, California, has subsided nine meters in 50 years; protective barriers have had to be built to prevent seawater from flooding the area.
As Patrick Kirch, an American anthropologist, points out, rather than being brought by rafting South Americans, sweet potatoes might just have easily been brought back by returning Polynesian navigators who could have reached the west coast of South America.
He then proceeded to teach himself geology, and when he was twenty-four, he went to work for the company that was excavating the Somerset Coal Canal in the south of England.
Demonstrations of infants   and toddlers' long-term memory have involved their repeating motor activities that they had seen or done earlier, such as reaching in the dark for objects, putting a bottle in a doll  s mouth, or pulling apart two pieces of a toy.
These three explanations of infantile amnesia are not mutually exclusive; indeed, they support each other.
Agriculture seems to have reached these people from the Near East, since the first domesticated crops were millets and sorghums whose origins are not African but west Asian.
Knowledge of iron making penetrated into the forest and savannahs of West Africa at roughly the same time that iron making was reaching Europe.
Unlike in the Americas, where metallurgy was a very late and limited development, Africans had iron from a relatively early date, developing ingenious furnaces to produce the high heat needed for production and to control the amount of air that reached the carbon and iron ore necessary for making iron.
The onrushing water arising from these flash floods likely also formed the odd teardrop-shaped   islands   (resembling the miniature versions seen in the wet sand of our beaches at low tide) that have been found on the plains close to the ends of the outflow channels.
Proponents point to features such as the terraced   beaches   shown in one image, which could conceivably have been left behind as a lake or ocean evaporated and the shoreline receded.
Teachers, it is thought, benefit from the practice of reflection, the conscious act of thinking deeply about and carefully examining the interactions and events within their own classrooms.
Educators T. Wildman and J. Niles (1987) describe a scheme for developing reflective practice in experienced teachers.
This was justified by the view that reflective practice could help teachers to feel more intellectually involved in their role and work in teaching and enable them to cope with the paucity of scientific fact and the uncertainty of knowledge in the discipline of teaching. 
They designed an experimental strategy for a group of teachers in Virginia and worked with 40 practicing teachers over several years.
They were concerned that many would be   drawn to these new, refreshing   conceptions of teaching only to find that the void between the abstractions and the realities of teacher reflection is too great to bridge.
Reflection on a complex task such as teaching is not easy.
The teachers were taken through a program of talking about teaching events, moving on to reflecting about specific issues in a supported, and later an independent, manner. 
Wildman and Niles observed that systematic reflection on teaching required a sound ability to understand classroom events in an objective manner.
They describe the initial understanding in the teachers with whom they were working as being   utilitarian    and not rich or detailed enough to drive systematic reflection.
Teachers rarely have the time or opportunities to view their own or the teaching of others in an objective manner.
Further observation revealed the tendency of teachers to evaluate events rather than review the contributory factors in a considered manner by, in effect, standing outside the situation. 
Helping this group of teachers to revise their thinking about classroom events became central.
The researchers estimate that the initial training of the teachers to view events objectively took between 20 and 30 hours, with the same number of hours again being required to practice the skills of reflection. 
Wildman and Niles identify three principles that facilitate reflective practice in a teaching situation.
The first is support from administrators in an education system, enabling teachers to understand the requirements of reflective practice and how it relates to teaching students.
The teachers in the program described how they found it difficult to put aside the immediate demands of others in order to give themselves the time they needed to develop their reflective skills.
The third is the development of a collaborative environment with support from other teachers.
Support and encouragement were also required to help teachers in the program cope with aspects of their professional life with which they were not comfortable.
Wildman and Niles make a summary comment:   Perhaps the most important thing we learned is the idea of the teacher-as-reflective-practitioner will not happen simply because it is a good or even compelling idea.   
Others have noted this, making a similar point about the teaching profession  s cultural inhibitions about reflective practice.
Zeichner and Liston (1987) point out the inconsistency between the role of the teacher as a (reflective) professional decision maker and the more usual role of the teacher as a technician, putting into practice the ideas of theirs.
Few have directly questioned what might lead a teacher to want to become reflective.
Apparently, the most obvious reason for teachers to work toward reflective practice is that teacher educators think it is a good thing.
There appear to be many unexplored matters about the motivation to reflect  C for example, the value of externally motivated reflection as opposed to that of teachers who might reflect by habit. 
These are not single individual plants; each one is a symbiotic combination of an alga and a fungus.
By force of sheer numbers, however, the mosses and ferns reached Hawaii, survived, and multiplied.
Some are soft and tempting, like a peach or a cherry.
Remarkably resistant to the vicissitudes of ocean travel, they can survive prolonged immersion in saltwater when they come to rest on warm beaches and the conditions are favorable, the seed coats soften.
One of the most far-reaching examples is the impact of the fine ninth-century AD.
To twentieth-century eyes, Chinese pottery may appear merely decorative, yet to the Chinese the form of each object and its adornment had meaning and significance.
The dragon represented the emperor, and the phoenix, the empress; the pomegranate indicated fertility, and a pair of fish, happiness; mandarin ducks stood for wedded bliss; the pine tree, peach, and crane are emblems of long life; and fish leaping from waves indicated success in the civil service examinations.
While these records provide broadly consistent indications that temperature variations can occur on a global scale, there are nonetheless some intriguing differences, which suggest that the pattern of temperature variations in regional climates can also differ significantly from each other.
English and Dutch ships carrying rye from the Baltic states reached Spain and Portugal.
To North Americans, the robins simply vacation in the south each winter.
Endogenous rivers often do not reach the sea but drain into inland basins, where the water evaporates or is lost in the ground.
The rate of movement may be very slow: in the Indus plain, the movement of saline (salty) groundwaters has still not reached equilibrium after 70 years of being tapped.
More often, we simply cooperate with others to reach some end without endowing the relationship with any larger significance.
In the northern peninsula the elevation is sufficiently low that the ancient Maya were able to reach the water table at deep sinkholes called cenotes, or at deep caves.
But much of the south lies too high above the water table for cenotes or wells to reach down to it.
By the late fourth millennium B.C., there is already evidence of large culture zones reaching from Eastern Europe to the western borders of Mongolia.
In a countercurrent exchange system, the blood vessels carrying cooled blood from the flippers run close enough to the blood vessels carrying warm blood from the body to pick up some heat from the warmer blood vessels; thus, the heat is transferred from the outgoing to the ingoing vessels before it reaches the flipper itself.
Leatherbacks reach their immense size in a much shorter time than it takes other sea turtles to grow.
With further melting, refreezing, and increased weight from newer snowfall above, the snow reaches a granular recrystallized stage intermediate between flakes and ice known as firn.
Thus when the series of elements was written so as to begin a new horizontal row with each alkali metal, elements of the same groups were automatically assembled in vertical columns in a periodic table of the elements.
Such anomalies are due to the relative abundance of the "isotopes" or varieties of each element.
Under the control of the Sun's gravitational force, each planet maintains an elliptical orbit and all of them travel in the same direction.
Simply stated, a gas molecule can "evaporate" from a planet if it reaches a speed known as the escape velocity.
Any material, including a rocket, must reach this speed before it can leave Earth and go into space.
The chief problem was technological: How were the Europeans to reach the East?
They also compete with each other for the best spot of sunlight.
Very little light filters through the canopy of leaves and branches in a rain forest to reach ground level  or close to the ground  and at those levels the yellow-to-green wavelengths predominate.
The sounds made as each wing is opened carry extremely well over distance and advertise his presence widely.
Volunteers wore wrist-mounted devices that automatically recorded their physical activity for up to two weeks: the volunteers also recorded their yawns by pressing a button on the device each time they yawned.
Once a channel has been formed, it is usually used by several lightning discharges, each of them consisting of a stream of electrons from the cloud meeting a stream of positive particles along the established path.
Emigration to the West reached a peak in the 1830's.
The latter two sources are limited to those few areas where surface water seeps down through underground faults or fractures to reach deep rocks heated by the recent activity of molten rock material.
Nutrient-rich water is brought to the wetlands during each high tide, making a high rate of food production possible.
It is already hampering the oyster harvest and the Dungeness crab fishery, and it interferes with the recreational use of beaches and waterfronts.
Portraiture, once a luxury for the privileged few, was suddenly well within the reach of many more people.
The questions become more complicated when actual volumes of water are considered: how much water enters and leaves by each route?
As transportation improved, distant and larger markets within the nation could be reached, thereby encouraging the development of larger factories to keep pace with increasing sales.
While population estimates are notoriously unreliable, scholars assume that Uruk inhabitants were able to support themselves from the agricultural production of the field surrounding the city, which could be reached with a daily commute.
Moose reached Isle Royale in Lake Superior by crossing over winter ice and multiplied freely there in isolation without predators.
When wolves later reached the island, naturalists widely assumed that the wolves would play a key role in controlling the moose population.
In some cases, the water table reaches Earth's surface, where it is expressed as rivers, lakes, and marshes.Typically, though, the water table may be tens or hundreds of meters below the surface.The water table is not flat but usually follows the contours of the topography.
For instance, as we all know, dogs recognize each other via smell.
North and South American species migrating across the Isthmus now came into competition with each other.
They need to learn how to be dominant and submissive because each monkey might have to play either role in the future.
A convincing 50-million-year sequence of modern horse ancestors    each slightly larger, with more complex teeth, a longer face, and a more prominent central toe    seemed to provide strong support for Darwin  s contention that species evolve gradually.
Horses evolved in discrete steps, each of which persisted almost unchanged for millions of years and was eventually replaced by a distinctive newer model.
In that study, each of eight different trilobite species was observed to undergo a gradual change in the number of segments    typically an increase of one or two segments over the whole time interval.
They were thus the pioneers of mechanical engineering and served as examples and teachers to other branches of engineering.
In general, the subpopulations of most species are separated from each other by some measurable distance.
He compared four enzymes found in the muscles of each population.
Second, it appears that closely related populations of fishes on both sides of the isthmus are starting to genetically diverge from each other.
In addition, results from other types of preschool readiness programs indicate that those who participate and graduate are less likely to repeat grades, and they are more likely to complete school than readiness program, for every dollar spent on the program, taxpayers saved seven dollars by the time the graduates reached the age of 27. 
Sandy soils are prone to the leaching of nutrients and minerals and so tend to be nutritionally poor.
Once the humus layer disappears, nutrients cannot be recycled and leach from the soil, converting soil from fertile to infertile and making it suitable only for savanna vegetation.
Many plants depend on wind for dispersal and produce abundant quantities of small, relatively short-lived seeds to compensate for the fact that wind is not always a reliable means of reaching the appropriate type of habitat.
The workers from the two colonies faced off in two swarms and displayed and fought with each other.
In the displays, pairs of bees faced each other, slowly flew vertically to a height of about three meters, and then grappled each other to the ground.
The two swarms abandoned the battle at about 8 or 9 A.M. each morning, only to re-form and begin again the next day just after dawn.
Before the railroad reached Tennessee, the state produced about 25,000 bushels (or 640 tons) of wheat, which sold for less than 50 cents a bushel.
The earlier unbroken landscape gave way to independent farms, each fenced off in a precise checkerboard pattern.
Before A.D. 900, manuscripts of the Koran (the book containing the teachings of the Islamic religion) seem to have been the most common type of book produced and decorated, but after that date a wide range of books were produced for a broad spectrum of patrons.
But Russia  s potential for growth was limited too, and in a few decades Russia would reach the barrier of inadequate energy that was already holding England back.
Extrafloral nectaries at the base of each sepal attract several kinds of insects, but 96 percent of them are ants, several different species of them.
Since women are less fertile when they are breast-feeding, substituting cereals for mother  s milk would have resulted in closer spacing of births and the potential for a greater number of live births for each woman.
Given sufficient time, even in very rich habitats, human population size can reach carrying capacity, the maximum population an area can sustain within the context of a given subsistence system.
So even after reaching an area  s carrying capacity, Holocene human populations probably continued to grow in food-rich regions, overshooting the ability of the territory to feed the population, again within the context of the same subsistence strategy.
Although each cell secretes a minute amount of toxin, the massive dinoflagellate numbers cause the toxin to reach concentrations that kill many creatures.
Under favorable conditions, a million or more of these tiny, single-celled plants can inhabit each cubic centimeter of soil.
These single-celled organisms are the most numerous representatives of the animal kingdom, and, like bacteria, a million or more can sometimes inhabit each cubic centimeter of soil.
He collected hundreds of different species of animals, and he saw that they were distributed in eight different depth zones, each containing its own distinct assemblage of animal life, the way zones of elevation on the side of a mountain are populated by distinct sets of plants. 
To determine whether this was true, Kettlewell released thousands of light and dark moths (each marked with a paint spot) into rural and industrialized areas.
As would later happen between another teacher-student pair of philosophers, Plato and Aristotle, Anaximander disagreed with his teacher despite his respect for him.
After ten or twelve stories, masonry construction reaches a maximum possible height, since it runs into difficulties of compression and of inadequate lateral strength to combat wind shear.
They occur in each of the 49 states of the continental United States.
was the rise of the polls, or city-state, and each polls developed a system of government that was appropriate to its circumstances.
As agricultural economies became more diversified and local food supplies could be purchased both locally and over longer distances, a far-reaching economic interdependence resulted.
Today each Galapagos island has multiple species of finches, with as many as ten on some islands.
felt that the ideal city-state should have about 5,000 citizens, because to the Greeks it was important that everyone in the community should know each other.
In decision making, the whole body of citizens together would have the necessary knowledge in order generally to reach the right decision, even though the individual might not be particularly qualified to decide.
This implied that the city-state was based on the idea that citizens were not specialists but had multiple interests and talents    each a so-called jack-of-all-trades who could engage in many areas of life and politics.
The seagrass beds, in turn, dampen wave action, particularly if the blades reach the water surface.
By contrast, in the tropics, where each tree species has few, widely scattered individuals, the chance of wind blowing pollen to another individual is sufficiently slim that animals are a safer bet as transporters of pollen.
Their filtering systems, which reach such a high degree of development in shallow- water species, are greatly reduced.
In an experiment that began in 1982, they compared these values with the number of plant species in each plot and discovered that the plots with a greater number of plant species experienced a less dramatic reduction in biomass.
He recognized that there were three major kinds: fringing reefs, barrier reefs, and atolls; and he saw that they were related to each other in a logical and gradational sequence.
The drill holes passed through more than a thousand meters of coral before reaching the rock substratum of the ocean floor, and indicated that the coral had been growing upward for tens of millions of years as Earth's crust subsided at a rate of between 15 and 51 meters per million years.
Certain particles reflect solar radiation, thereby reducing the sunlight that reaches the surface.
The most crucial effect of climate was on the sheer quantity of land available in each period, measurable by studying ancient coastlines.
Falls in sea level often exposed a number of important land bridges, such as those linking Alaska to northeast Asia and Britain to northwest Europe, a phenomenon with far reaching effects not only on human colonization of the globe but also on the environment as a whole-the flora and fauna of isolated or insular areas were radically and often irreversibly affected.
The assessment of past rises and falls in sea level requires study of submerged land surfaces off the coast and of raised of elevated beaches on land.
Raised beaches are remnants of former coastlines at higher levels relative to the present shoreline and visible, for instance, along the Californian coast north of San Francisco, the height of a raised beach above the present shoreline, however, does not generally give a straightforward indication of the height of a former sea level.
In the majority of cases, the beaches lie at a higher level because the land has been raised up through isostatic uplift or tectonic movement.
Tectonic movements involve displacements in the plates that make up Earth  s crust, Middle and Late Pleistocene raised beaches in the Mediterranean are one instance of such movements.
Raised beaches often consist of areas of sand, pebbles, or dunes, sometimes containing seashells or piles of debris comprising shells and bones of marine animals used by humans.
