This region has a semiarid climate, and for 50 years after its settlement, it supported a low-intensity agricultural economy of cattle ranching and wheat farming.
The ensuing rapid expansion of irrigation agriculture, especially from the 1950s onward, transformed the economy of the region.
Thus, the paintings are consistent with the idea that the art is related to the importance of hunting in the economy of Upper Paleolithic people.
In all probability it was the fertile plain of Latium, where the Latins who founded Rome originated, that created the habits and skills of landed settlement, landed property, landed economy, landed administration, and a land-based society.
All this led to increased wealth, which in turn would attract more immigrants to Teotihuac  n. The growing power of the elite, who controlled the economy, would give them the means to physically coerce people to move to Teotihuac  n and serve as additions to the labor force.
The coastal hypothesis suggests an economy based on marine mammal hunting, saltwater fishing, shellfish gathering, and the use of watercraft.
Populations cannot grow unless the rural economy can produce enough additional food to feed more people.
More extended trading networks also helped develop Europe's economy in this period.
Trade was the mainstay of the urban economy in the Middle East, as caravans negotiated the surrounding desert, restricted only by access to water and by mountain ranges.
The mercantile economy was also characterized by a peculiar moral stance that is typical of people who live by trade  an attitude that is individualistic, calculating, risk taking, and adaptive to circumstances.
As among tribespeople, personal relationships and a careful weighing of character have always been crucial in a mercantile economy with little regulation, where one's word is one's bond and where informal ties of trust cement together an international trade network.
This development, coming as it did when the bottom had fallen out of the European economy, provided an impetus to a long-held desire to secure direct relations with the East by establishing a sea trade.
This fact was of enormous value in helping the national economies find their niches in the evolving currents of the international economy.
In the wake of the Roman Empire's conquest of Britain in the first century A.D., a large number of troops stayed in the new province, and these troops had a considerable impact on Britain with their camps, fortifications, and participation in the local economy.
Although goods could be requisitioned, they were usually paid for, and this probably stimulated changes in the local economy.
Each soldier received his pay, but in regions without a developed economy there was initially little on which it could be spent.
The pool of excess cash rapidly stimulated a thriving economy outside fort gates.
Some of the demand for the services and goods was no doubt fulfilled by people drawn from far afield, but some local people certainly became entwined in this new economy.
After 1815 improved transportation enabled more and more western farmers to escape a self-sufficient way of life and enter a national market economy.
Western Farmers borrowed with the confident expectation that the expanding economy would keep farm prices high, thus making it easy to repay loans when they fell due.
Two other developments presaged the end of the era of turnpikes and started a transportation revolution that resulted in increased regional specialization and the growth of a national market economy.
Agriculture and fishing formed the primary sector of the economy in the Netherlands in the seventeenth century.
In addition to dairy farming and cultivating industrial crops, a third sector of the Dutch economy reflected the way in which agriculture was being modernized-horticulture.
Certain images depict groups of people, most likely women, involved in weaving textiles, an activity we know from later third-millennium texts to have been vital in the economy and to have been centrally administered.
The effect of the new railroad lines rippled outward through the economy.
Once scarce and expensive, iron became cheap, basic, and indispensable to the economy.
