The raising of livestock is a major economic activity in semiarid lands, where grasses are generally the dominant type of natural vegetation.
Moreover, the city had economic and perhaps religious contacts with most parts of Mesoamerica (modern Central America and Mexico).  
With Cuicuilco eliminated as a potential rival, any one of a number of relatively modest towns might have emerged as a leading economic and political power in Central Mexico.
Much of the potential for European economic development lay in what at first glance would seem to have been only sleepy villages.
Pastoralism is a lifestyle in which economic activity is based primarily on livestock.
The political institutions of the four countries posed no significant barriers to industrialization or economic growth.
The European ancestors of some Americans had for centuries lived rooted to the same village or piece of land until some religious, political, or economic crisis uprooted them and drove them across the Atlantic.
In American society, however, the class structure was less rigid; some people changed occupations easily and believed it was their duty to improve their social and economic position.
Once humans possessed such a mind, they were able to find an imaginative solution to a situation of severe economic crisis such as the farming dilemma described earlier.
In the late thirteenth century, northern Italian cities such as Genoa, Florence, and Venice began an economic resurgence that made them into the most important economic centers of Europe.
By the seventeenth century, however, other European powers had taken over, as the Italian cities lost much of their economic might. 
For years historians have sought to identify crucial elements in the eighteenth-century rise in industry, technology, and economic power Known as the Industrial Revolution, and many give prominence to the problem of energy.
the political and economic life of the cities was centered on their temples, but it now seems probable that the cities had secular rulers from earliest times.
Texts dealing with economic matters predominated, as they always had done; but at this point works of theology, literature, history, and law also appeared.
For instance, compared with children who did not participate in early intervention programs, participants in various programs showed gains in emotional or cognitive development, better educational outcomes, increased economic self-sufficiency, reduced level of criminal activity, and improved health-related behaviors.
First, the opening of the kingdom to the full force of international trade by the Bowring Treaty (1855) rapidly encouraged economic specialization in the growing of rice, mainly to feed the rice-deficient portions of Asia (India and China in particular).
More economic variation took shape in rural villages, as some grew prosperous from farming while others did not.
While some of these urban centers were identified with a particular economic function, such as proximity to gold or iron deposits or a strategic location on a major trade route, others served primarily as administrative centers or the site of temples for the official cult or other ritual observances.
The economic consequence of these technical innovations in steam power was a great boom in the British iron industry.
This development resulted in a change in the social and economic equations that defined those societies.
The first steps toward change were taken by Solon in 594 B.C., when he broke the aristocracy  s stranglehold on elected offices by establishing wear rather than birth as the basis of office holding, abolishing the economic obligations of ordinary Athenians to the aristocracy, and allowing the assembly (of which all citizens were equal members) to overrule the decisions of local courts in certain cases.
As agricultural economies became more diversified and local food supplies could be purchased both locally and over longer distances, a far-reaching economic interdependence resulted.
Thus, intensified trade and interaction, and the flowering of specialist crafts, in a complex process of positive feedback, led to much more complex societies based on palaces, which were the economic hubs of a new Minoan civilization.
It implied economic and military self-sufficiency.
This upwelling of water has economic repercussions.
The commercial changes of the eleventh through fourteenth centuries did however, lay the economic foundation for the development of urban life and culture.
Europe  s economic institutions, particularly those in England, were strong, had wealth available for new investment, and seemed almost to be waiting for some technological breakthrough that would expand their profit-making potential even more.
The breakthrough came in Great Britain, where several economic advantages created a climate especially favorable to the encouraged of new technology.
