Natural selection favors the parasites that are best able to find and feed on hosts.
At times, it is actually possible to watch the effects of natural selection in host-parasite relationships.
Meanwhile, the deadliest strains of the virus perished with their hosts as natural selection favored strains that could infect hosts but not kill them.
Thus, natural selection stabilized this host-parasite relationship.
So once natural selection had shaped the adaptations that helped plants overcome the obstacles to terrestrial living, plants prospered and diversified.
Competition among individuals of the same species (intraspecies competition), one of the major mechanisms of natural selection, is the concern of evolutionary biology.
The evolutionary effect of competition on species has been referred to as "species selection;" however, this description is potentially misleading.
Only the individuals of a species are subject to the pressures of natural selection.
The effect on the well-being and existence of a species is just the result of the effects of selection on all the individuals of the species.
Thus species selection is actually a result of individual selection.
The idea of natural selection is that organisms in a species that have characteristics favoring survival are most likely to survive and produce offspring with the same characteristics.
One of the most thoroughly analyzed examples of natural selection in operation is the change in color that has occurred in certain populations of the peppered moth, Biston betularia, in industrial regions of Europe during the past 100 years.
Melanics were normally quickly eliminated in nonindustrial areas by adverse selection; birds spotted them easily.
The idea that natural selection was responsible for the changing ratio of dark- to light-colored peppered moths was developed in the 1950s by H. B. D. Kettlewell of Oxford University.
If natural selection was the explanation, then there should be different survival rates for dark- and light-colored moths.
The action of natural selection in producing a small but highly significant step of evolution was seemingly demonstrated, with birds as the selecting force.
Not every researcher has been convinced that natural selection by birds is the only explanation of the observed frequencies of dark and light peppered moths.
More recent data, however, provide additional support for Kettleweir  s ideas about natural selection.
From the demes, by either election or selection, came 500 members of a new council, 6,000 jurors for the courts,
