It has been estimated that an additional one-fourth of the Earth's land surface is threatened by this process. 
It is estimated that at current withdrawal rates, much of the aquifer will run dry within 40 years.
Before the arrival of Europeans, the islands in the two largest cultural areas, Polynesia and Micronesia, together contained a population estimated at 700,000.
By measuring how many of these meteorites fall to Earth over a given period of time, scientists can estimate how long it might have taken to deposit the observed amount of Ir in the boundary clay.
The researchers estimate that the initial training of the teachers to view events objectively took between 20 and 30 hours, with the same number of hours again being required to practice the skills of reflection. 
One way to estimate how all the various processes leading to climate variability will combine is by using computer models of the global climate.
According to this hypothesis, Earth collided with an asteroid with an estimated diameter of 10 kilometers, or with several asteroids, the combined mass of which was comparable.
The total amount of ice is even more awesome if we estimate the water released upon the hypothetical melting of the world  s glaciers.
An estimated 99.85 percent of the mass of our solar system is contained within the Sun, while the planets collectively make up most of the remaining 0.15 percent.
The contribution of geothermal energy to the world's energy future is difficult to estimate.
According to estimates, about 120,000 tons of imported grain fed about 600,000 people: that is about a third of the Dutch population.
Scientists have no direct evidence for recent or ongoing eruptions, but if these volcanoes were active as recently as 100 million, years ago (an estimate of the time of last "eruption based on the extent of impact cratering on their slopes), some of them may still be at least intermittently active.
Age estimates ranging from four billion years for Mars's southern highlands to a few hundred million years in the youngest volcanic areas were obtained in this way.
While population estimates are notoriously unreliable, scholars assume that Uruk inhabitants were able to support themselves from the agricultural production of the field surrounding the city, which could be reached with a daily commute.
When considering quantities, we would ideally like to have some estimates for overall production from particular sites of pottery manufacture and for overall consumption at specific settlements.
However, there is one exceptional dump, which does represent a very large part of the site's total history of consumption and for which an estimate of quantity has been produced.
It has been estimated that Monte Testaccio contains the remains of some 53 million amphorae, in which around 6,000 million liters of oil were imported into the city from overseas, imports into imperial Rome were supported by the full might of the state and were therefore quite exceptional  but the size of the operations at Monte Testaccio, and the productivity and complexity that lay behind them, nonetheless cannot fail to impress.
More important than the amount of time Herodotus computed, which turns out to be trivial compared with the age of Earth, was the notion that one could estimate ages of geologic features by determining rates of the processes responsible for such features, and then assuming the rates to be roughly constant over time.
Similar applications of this concept were to be used again and again in later centuries to estimate the ages of rock formations and, in particular, of layers of sediment that had compacted and cemented to form sedimentary rocks.
After Hutton, geologists tried to determine rates of sedimentation so as to estimate the age of Earth from the total length of the sedimentary, or stratigraphic, record.
These underestimated the actual age by factors of 10 to 50 because much of the sedimentary record is missing in various locations and because there is a long rock sequence that is older than half a billion years that is far less well defined in terms of fossils and less well preserved.
Various other techniques to estimate Earth's age fell short, and particularly noteworthy in this regard were flawed determinations of the Sun's age.
Ages for Earth were derived that were in the tens of millions of years, much less than the geologic estimates of the lime.
Modern soundings indicate he overestimated his depths by several hundred fathoms, but in any case Ross  s clam dove several times deeper than Forbes  s dredge.
the number of raccoons in North America was estimated to be at least 15 to 20 times the number that existed during the 1930s.
It is estimated that no more than 0.1 percent of all the organic matter originally buried in a sediment is eventually trapped in an oil pool.
Unlike coal, the volume of which can be accurately estimated, the volume of undiscovered oil can only be guessed at.
Knowing how much oil has been found in an intensively drilled area, such as eastern Texas, experts make estimates of probable volumes in other regions where rock types and structures are similar to those in eastern Texas.
Using this approach and considering all the sedimentary basins of the world, experts estimate that somewhere between 1,500 and 3,000 billion barrels of oil will eventually be discovered.
We should not underestimate the social status associated with such mundane possessions which had not previously been available.
It is estimated that the Chinese population by 1600 was close to 150 million.
