The relative amount of these two kinds of water varies greatly from one kind of rock or sediment to another, even though their porosities may be the same.
But the myths that have grown up around the rites may continue as part of the group  s oral tradition and may even come to be acted out under conditions divorced from these rites.
Thus, the recalling of an event (a hunt, battle, or other feat) is elaborated through the narrator  s pantomime and impersonation and eventually through each role being assumed by a different person.
As the snow is deeper and lasts longer in the valleys, trees tend to attain greater heights on the ridges, even though they are more exposed to high-velocity winds and poor, thin soils there.
Some plants can even survive in favorable microhabitats above the snow line.
An even more exciting find was reported in 1994, also from Pakistan.
The structure of the backbone shows, however, that Ambulocetus swam like modern whales by moving the rear portion of its body up and down, even though a fluke was missing.
The water evaporates and the salts are left behind, creating a white crustal layer that prevents air and water from reaching the underlying soil. 
The extreme seriousness of desertification results from the vast areas of land and the tremendous numbers of people affected, as well as from the great difficulty of reversing or even slowing the process.
It suddenly became public  an experience that the viewer shared with dozens, scores, and even hundreds of others.
In order for the structure to achieve the size and strength necessary to meet its purpose, architecture employs methods of support that, because they are based on physical laws, have changed little since people first discovered them  even while building materials have changed dramatically.
A worsening of the plight of deer was to be expected as settlers encroached on the land, logging, burning, and clearing, eventually replacing a wilderness landscape with roads, cities, towns, and factories.
But painting may be even older than that.
More than one-quarter of the world  s oil and almost one-fifth of the world  s natural gas come from offshore, even though offshore drilling is six to seven times more expensive than drilling on land.
The Wilmington field near Long Beach, California, has subsided nine meters in 50 years; protective barriers have had to be built to prevent seawater from flooding the area.
Research has focused on the toxic effects of heavy metals such as lead, cadmium, mercury, and aluminum; however, even copper and zinc, which are essential elements, can become toxic in high concentrations.
They inferred that the Egyptians even crossed the Pacific to found the great civilizations of the New World (North and South America).
The geologic timescale is marked by significant geologic and biological events, including the origin of Earth about 4.6 billion years ago, the origin of life about 3.5 billion years ago, the origin of eukaryotic life-forms (living things that have cells with true nuclei) about 1.5 billion years ago, and the origin of animals about 0.6 billion years ago.
The last event marks the beginning of the Cambrian period.
Furthermore, even the most reliable waterpower varied with the seasons and disappeared in a drought.
Coal gas rivaled smoky oil lamps and flickering candles, and early in the new century, well-to-do Londoners grew accustomed to gaslit houses and even streets.
In 1831 when Smith was finally recognized by the Geological Society of London as the   father of English geology,   it was not only for his maps but also for something even more important.
Most people remember only a few events  usually ones that were meaningful and distinctive, such as being hospitalized or a sibling  s birth. 
Children two and a half to three years old remember experiences that occurred in their first year, and eleven month olds remember some events a year later.
While such repression may occur, people cannot remember ordinary events from the infant and toddler periods either.
Hearing and telling stories about events may help children store information in ways that will endure into later childhood and adulthood.
Through hearing stories with a clear beginning, middle, and ending children may learn to extract the gist of events in ways that they will be able to describe many years later.
Consistent with this view, parents and children increasingly engage in discussions of past events when children are about three years old.
Whether people can remember an event depends critically on the fit between the way in which they earlier encoded the information and the way in which they later attempt to retrieve it.
General knowledge of categories of events such as a birthday party or a visit to the doctor's office helps older individuals encode their experiences, but again, infants and toddlers are unlikely to encode many experiences within such knowledge structures.
Physiological immaturity may be part of why infants and toddlers do not form extremely enduring memories, even when they hear stories that promote such remembering in preschoolers.
Hearing the stories may lead preschoolers to encode aspects of events that allow them to form memories they can access as adults.
Conversely, improved encoding of what they hear may help them better understand and remember stories and thus make the stories more useful for remembering future events.
Thus, all three explanations  physiological maturation, hearing and producing stories about past events, and improved encoding of key aspects of events  seem likely to be involved in overcoming infantile amnesia.
Some scientists speculate that Mars may have enjoyed an extended early Period during which rivers, lakes, and perhaps even oceans adorned its surface.
Other researchers go even further, suggesting that the data provide evidence for large open expenses of water on the early Martian surface.
Yet even setting aside the unproven hints of ancient oceans, the extent of the outflow channels suggests that a huge total volume of water existed on Mars in the past.
Teachers, it is thought, benefit from the practice of reflection, the conscious act of thinking deeply about and carefully examining the interactions and events within their own classrooms.
The teachers were taken through a program of talking about teaching events, moving on to reflecting about specific issues in a supported, and later an independent, manner. 
Wildman and Niles observed that systematic reflection on teaching required a sound ability to understand classroom events in an objective manner.
Further observation revealed the tendency of teachers to evaluate events rather than review the contributory factors in a considered manner by, in effect, standing outside the situation. 
Helping this group of teachers to revise their thinking about classroom events became central.
The researchers estimate that the initial training of the teachers to view events objectively took between 20 and 30 hours, with the same number of hours again being required to practice the skills of reflection. 
Wildman and Niles make a summary comment:   Perhaps the most important thing we learned is the idea of the teacher-as-reflective-practitioner will not happen simply because it is a good or even compelling idea.   
Now, other forms of life could take hold: ferns and mosses (two of the most ancient types of land plants) that flourish even in rock crevices.
Some species developed great size, becoming tree ferns that even now grow in the Hawaiian forests. 
By means of these seeds, plants spread more widely to new locations, even to isolated islands like the Hawaiian archipelago, which lies more than 2,000 miles west of California and 3,500 miles east of Japan.
The function and status of ceramics in China varied from dynasty to dynasty, so they may be utilitarian, burial, trade-collectors', or even ritual objects, according to their quality and the era in which they were made.
Whitewares produced in Hebei and Henan provinces from the seventh to the tenth centuries evolved into the highly prized porcelains of the Song dynasty (AD.
In the seventeenth century, the trading activities of the Dutch East India Company resulted in vast quantities of decorated Chinese porcelain being brought to Europe, which stimulated and influenced the work of a wide variety of wares, notably Delft.
Only when European decorative themes were introduced did these meanings become obscured or even lost.
One of the most difficult aspects of deciding whether current climatic events reveal evidence of the impact of human activities is that it is hard to get a measure of what constitutes the natural variability of the climate.
Some current analyses conclude that volcanoes and solar activity explain quite a considerable amount of the observed variability in the period from the seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries, but that they cannot be invoked to explain the rapid warming in recent decades.
In the late sixteenth century and into the seventeenth, Europe continued the growth that had lifted it out of the relatively less prosperous medieval period (from the mid 400s to the late 1400s).
Dutch land reclamation in the Netherlands in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries provides the most spectacular example of the expansion of farmland: the Dutch reclaimed more than 36.000 acres from 1590 to 1615 alone.
This capital financed the production of goods, storage, trade, and even credit across Europe and overseas.
Other areas under investigation include magnetism, landmarks, coastlines, sonar, and even smells.
Occasionally one can determine whether stone tools were used in the right hand or the left, and it is even possible to assess how far back this feature can be traced.
At seven sites he found that 57 percent of the flakes were right-oriented, and 43 percent left, a pattern almost identical to that produced today.
New color processes, larger or differently shaped screen sizes, multiple-screen projections, even television, were among the developments invented or tried out during the period, sometimes with startling success.
It is known, however, that the distribution of groundwater is uneven, and that much of it lies at great depths.
The mineral content of groundwater normally increases with the depth, but even quite shallow aquifers can be highly saline.
Survival and successful reproduction usually require the activities of animals to be coordinated with predictable events around them.
Consequently, the timing and rhythms of biological functions must closely match periodic events like the solar day, the tides, the lunar cycle, and the seasons.
When crayfish are kept continuously in the dark, even for four to five months, their compound eyes continue to adjust on a daily schedule for daytime and nighttime vision.
Indeed, stability of the biological clock's period is one of its major features, even when the organism's environment is subjected to considerable changes in factors, such as temperature, that would be expected to affect biological activity strongly.
Claims such as "the best" or "better than" can be subjective and misleading; even adults may be unsure as to their meaning.
This finding was even more marked for heavy viewers of television.
Archaeological evidence suggests that by 3000 B.C., and perhaps even earlier, there had emerged on the steppes of Inner Eurasia the distinctive types of pastoralism that were to dominate the region's history for several millennia.
So, it is no accident that with the appearance of pastoralist societies there appear large areas that share similar cultural, ecological, and even linguistic features.
Hatchlings are simply too small to conserve body heat, even with insulation and countercurrent exchange systems.
There was one such event at the end of the Cretaceous period (around 70 million years ago).
There was another, even larger, mass extinction at the end of the Permian period (around 250 million years ago).
The Permian event has attracted much less attention than other mass extinctions because mostly unfamiliar species perished at that time.
This iridium anomaly offers strong support for the Alvarez hypothesis even though no asteroid itself has ever been recovered.
An asteroid of this size would be expected to leave an immense crater, even if the asteroid itself was disintegrated by the impact.
The total amount of ice is even more awesome if we estimate the water released upon the hypothetical melting of the world  s glaciers.
Here water may be stored in ice form for hundreds or even hundreds of thousands of years before being released again into the liquid water system as meltwater.
Glaciers move slowly across the land with tremendous energy, carving into even the hardest rock formations and thereby reshaping the landscape as they engulf, push, drag, and finally deposit rock debris in places far from its original location.
Mendeleyev was bolder than Meyer and even assumed that if a measured atomic mass put an element in the wrong place in the table, the atomic mass was wrong.
For example, tellurium comes before iodine in the periodic table, even though its atomic mass is slightly greater.
The largest terrestrial planet, Earth has a diameter only one quarter as great as the diameter of the smallest Jovian planet, Neptune, and its mass is only one seventeenth as great.
Also, because the molecular motion of a gas depends on temperature, at the low temperatures of the Jovian planets even the lightest gases are unlikely to acquire the speed needed to escape.
On the other hand, a comparatively warm body with a small surface gravity, like Earth's moon, is unable to hold even the heaviest gas and thus lacks an atmosphere.
The slightly larger terrestrial planets Earth, Venus, and Mars retain some heavy gases like carbon dioxide, but even their atmospheres make up only an infinitesimally small portion of their total mass.
The explanation may be that the terrestrial planets were once much larger and richer in these materials but eventually lost them because of these bodies' relative closeness to the Sun, which meant that their temperatures were relatively high.
But even high-priced commodities like spices had to be transported in large bulk in order to justify the expense and trouble of sailing around the African continent all the way to India and China.
The astrolabe had long been the primary instrument for navigation, having been introduced in the eleventh century.
In the first case, the plants provide the bacteria with carbohydrates and other organic compounds, and the bacteria have enzymes that act as catalysts that eventually add nitrogen to the soil, enriching it.
They sting other insects and large herbivores (animals that eat only plants) and even clip surrounding vegetation that grows near the tree.
The people of the Netherlands, with a long tradition of fisheries and mercantile shipping, had difficulty in developing good harbors suitable for steamships: eventually they did so at Rotterdam and Amsterdam, with exceptional results for transit trade with Germany and central Europe and for the processing of overseas foodstuffs and raw materials (sugar, tobacco, chocolate, grain, and eventually oil).
Babies with congenital blockages that prevent this fluid from escaping from their lungs are sometimes born with deformed lungs.
Lightning that strikes the ground is the most likely to be destructive, so even though it represents only 20 percent of all lightning, it has received a lot of scientific attention.
Assessing the impact of the army on the civilian population starts from the realization that the soldiers were always unevenly distributed across the country.
An abandoned field, for instance, will be invaded successively by herbaceous plants (plants with little or no woody tissue), shrubs, and trees, eventually becoming a forest.
There is usually a good deal of turnover in species composition, even in a mature community.
Furthermore, the number of interactions is so great that they are difficult to analyze, even with the help of large computers.
They could trace the growth and shrinkage of continental glaciers, even in parts of the ocean where there may have been no great change in temperature  around the equator, for example.
Whereas in 1810 only a seventh of the American people lived west of the Appalachian Mountains, by 1840 more than a third lived there.
First came the steamboat; although flatboats and keelboats continued to be important until the 1850  s steamboats eventually superseded all other craft in the carrying of passengers and freight.
Insects and even small invertebrates have been found preserved in the hardened resins of conifers and certain other trees.
Among the superbly preserved Messel fossils are insects with iridescent exoskeletons (hard outer coverings), frogs with skin and blood vessels intact, and even entire small mammals with preserved fur and soft tissue.
It is archaeologist Steven Mithen's thesis, brilliantly developed in his book The Prehistory of the Mind (1996), that approximately 40,000 years ago the human mind developed cognitive fluidity, that is, the integration of the specializations of the mind: technical, natural history (geared to understanding the behavior and distribution of natural resources), social intelligence, and the linguistic capacity.
Many find that understanding the general nature of autobiographical memory, that is, memory for events that have occurred in one's own life, can provide some important clues to this mystery.
Between ages three and four, children begin to give fairly lengthy and cohesive descriptions of events in their past.
Perhaps the explanation goes back to some ideas raised by influential Swiss psychologist Jean Piaget  namely, that children under age two years represent events in a qualitatively different form than older children do.
According to this line of thought, the verbal abilities that blossom in the two year old allow events to be coded in a form radically different from the action-based codes of the infant.
Verbal abilities of one year olds are, in fact, related to their memories for events one year later.
When researchers had one year olds imitate an action sequence one year after they first saw it, there was correlation between the children's verbal skills at the time they first saw the event and their success on the later memory task.
However, even children with low verbal skills showed evidence of remembering the event; thus, memories may be facilitated by but are not dependent on those verbal skills.
Another suggestion is that before children can talk about past events in their lives, they need to have a reasonable understanding of the self as a psychological entity.
Knowledge about narratives arises from social interactions, particularly the storytelling that children experience from parents and the attempts parents make to talk with children about past events in their lives.
Furthermore, other studies show that Caucasian American mother-child pairs talk about past events three times more often than do Korean mother-child pairs.
Once established, a stand of Spartina begins to trap sediment, changing the substrate elevation, and eventually the stand evolves into a high marsh system where Spartina is gradually displaced by higher-elevation, brackish-water species.
Along the east coast Spartina is considered valuable for its ability to prevent erosion and marshland deterioration; it is also used for coastal restoration projects and the creation of new wetland sites.
A few chondrules contain grains that survived the melting event, so these enigmatic chondrules must have formed when compact masses of nebular dust were fused at high temperatures and then cooled before these surviving grains could melt.
Study of the textures of chondrules confirms that they cooled rather quickly, in times measured in minutes or hours, so the heating events that formed them must have been localized.
These are the elements that tend to form gases even at very low temperatures.
All the heat that warms a building eventually transfers to the surrounding air, a process that is quickest where houses are poorly insulated.
Therefore, even without any industrial production of heat, an urban area tends to be warmer than the countryside that surrounds it.
But in the countryside materials have a significantly lower heat capacity because a vegetative blanket prevents heat from easily flowing into and out of the ground.
With much of the built-up landscape impenetrable by water, even gentle rain runs off almost immediately from rooftops, streets, and parking lots.
Agriculture and fishing formed the primary sector of the economy in the Netherlands in the seventeenth century.
This changed in the early part of the seventeenth century when horticulture became accepted as an agricultural sector.
The increased yield and price of land justified reclaiming and draining even more land.
However, land reclamation decreased significantly after the middle of the seventeenth century because the price of agricultural products began to fall, making land reclamation far less profitable in the second part of the century. 
Dutch agriculture was finally affected by the general agricultural crisis in Europe during the last two decades of the seventeenth century.
In Europe as a whole, the exceptional reduction in the population and the related fall in demand for grain since the beginning of the seventeenth century had caused the price of agricultural products to fall.
However, toward the end of the seventeenth century, they too were overtaken by the general agricultural crisis.
Not only are there differences in the level of the functioning of respiratory systems, there are even changes in how they function.
Additional breathing changes occur during REM sleep that are even more dramatic than the changes that occur during NREM.
The amount of air exchanged is even lower in REM than NREM because, although breathing is more rapid in REM, it is also more irregular, with brief episodes of shallow breathing or absence of breathing.
Sharing and cooperation were almost certainly part of early Puebloan life, even for people living in largely independent single-household residences scattered across the landscape.
Archaeologists find that even the most isolated residences during the eleventh and twelfth centuries obtained some pottery, and probably food, from some distance away, while major ceremonial events were opportunities for sharing food and crafts.
As lava flows and spreads to form a shield volcano, the volcano's eventual height depends on the new mountain's ability to support its own weight.
By the seventeenth century, however, other European powers had taken over, as the Italian cities lost much of their economic might. 
Gradually, Venice's role as a storage and distribution center for spices and silk, dyes cotton, and gold decayed, and by the early seventeenth century Venice had lost its monopoly in markets such as France and southern Germany.
Water temperature can fluctuate seasonally or even daily and changing level of rainfall can lead to fluctuations in the concentration of chemical in the water or even to period in which the aquatic habitat dries up.
Improvements in road construction and sailing had occurred, but shipping heavy freight over land remained expensive, even with the use of rivers and canals wherever possible.
Some plants are woody in type    an adaptation designed to prevent collapse of the plant tissue when water stress produces wilting.
The vast majority of its population remained active in agriculture, even those people living within the city itself.
Generally speaking, the interiors of plates are geologically uneventful.
Thus even the less competitive species are able to survive.
For example, sea stars prey on a variety of bivalve mollusks and prevent these bivalves from monopolizing habitats on the sea floor.
However, even igneous and metamorphic rocks may act as groundwater reservoirs if extensive fracturing occurs in such rocks and if the fracture system is interconnected.
Instead of following the cattle on their annual migrations, the hunters began to prevent the herd from moving from one spot to another.
It is still unclear whether domesticated cattle were tamed independently in northern Africa or introduced to the continent from Southwest Asia.Whatever the source of the original tamed herds might have been, it seems entirely likely that much the same process of juxtaposition (living side by side) and control occurred in both Southwest Asia and northern Africa, and even in Europe, among peoples who had an intimate knowledge of the behavior of wild cattle.
However, it is impossible to do justice to Roman wares on the page, even when words can be backed up by photographs and drawings.
This was a society with similarities to modern one  moving goods on a gigantic scale, manufacturing high-quality containers to do so, and occasionally, as here, even discarding them on delivery.
Numerous seeming exceptions to this law have since been found, but they can usually be explained as cases in which the two species, even though competing for a major joint resource, did not really occupy exactly the same niche.
Water was the main source of mechanical power, and by the end of the seventeenth century, England alone is thought to have had some 20,000 working mills.
Horses evolved in discrete steps, each of which persisted almost unchanged for millions of years and was eventually replaced by a distinctive newer model.
The four-toed Eohippus preceded the three-toed Miohippus, for example, but North American fossil evidence suggests a jerky, uneven transition between the two.
The Catholic Church had its seven daily prayers, one of which was at night, requiring an alarm arrangement to waken monks before dawn.
Eventually the subpopulations become so genetically distinct that they cannot interbreed even if the physical barriers between them were removed.
So even under normal situations the gene flow among the subpopulations is more of an intermittent trickle than a steady stream.
We find evidence of such extended events in the fossil record, which affords glimpses into the breakup of formerly continuous environments.
In addition, results from other types of preschool readiness programs indicate that those who participate and graduate are less likely to repeat grades, and they are more likely to complete school than readiness program, for every dollar spent on the program, taxpayers saved seven dollars by the time the graduates reached the age of 27. 
When burning occurs, it prevents competition among plant species from progressing to the point where some species exclude others, reducing the overall diversity of the ecosystem.
But in experimental areas protected from fire, a few perennial grass species eventually come to dominate, outcompeting all others.
A fertile, plowed field is rapidly invaded by a large variety of weeds, whereas a neighboring construction site from which the soil has been compacted or removed to expose a coarse, infertile parent material may remain virtually free of vegetation for many months or even years despite receiving the same input of seeds as the plowed field. 
Species succession in plant communities, i.e., the temporal sequence of appearance and disappearance of species is dependent on events occurring at different stages in the life history of a species.
These families were pensioned off(given a sum of money to live on) or simply had their revenues taken away or restricted; their sons were enticed away to schools for district officers, later to be posted in some faraway  province; and the old patron-client relations that had bound together local societies simply disintegrated.
The same situation viewed from the perspective of the rural population is even more complex.
This was probably a large increase over the figure even two or three decades earlier, during the late 1800s.
There were still forests closely surrounding Bangkok into the last half of the nineteenth century, and even at century  s end there were wild elephants and tigers roaming the countryside only twenty or thirty miles away.
As time went on, such communities gradually learned how to direct the flow of water to enhance the productive capacity of the land, while the introduction of the iron plow eventually led to the cultivation of heavy soils not previously susceptible to agriculture.
The need to oversee the entire process brought about the emergence of an elite that was eventually transformed into a government.
In the absence of these fires, trees reappeared on land not in cultivation and, if undisturbed, eventually formed woodlots.
The five major mass extinctions receive most of the attention, but they are only one end of a spectrum of extinction events.
Collectively, more species went extinct during smaller events that were less dramatic but more frequent.
The best known of the five major extinction events, the one that saw the demise of the dinosaurs, is the Cretaceous-Tertiary extinction.
Nevertheless, climatic explanations for the K-T extinction are not really challenged by the ideas that dinosaurs may have been endothermic, because even endotherms can be affected by a significant change in the climate.
In other words, a series of events arising from a single cataclysmic event caused the massive extinctions.
This came about from two major developments: paper became common, replacing parchment as the major medium for writing, and rounded scripts were regularized and perfected so that they replaced the angular scripts of the previous period, which because of their angularity were uneven in height.
Papermaking spread quickly to Egypt---and eventually to Sicily and Spain---but it was several centuries before paper supplanted parchment for copies of the Koran, probably because of the conservative nature of religious art and its practitioners.
Many plants  one or more species of at least 68 different families  can secrete nectar even when they have no blossoms, because they bear extrafloral nectaries (structures that produce nectar) on stems, leaves, leaf stems, or other structures.
Bentley compared the seed production of six plants that grew where there were no ants with that of seventeen plants that were occupied by ants.
It was not until the seventeenth century that attempts were made again to understand clues to Earth's history through the rock record.
The effects of wind and water then break down the masses of uplifted rock, producing sediment that is transported by water downward to ultimately form layers in lakes, seashores, or even oceans.
Given sufficient time, even in very rich habitats, human population size can reach carrying capacity, the maximum population an area can sustain within the context of a given subsistence system.
So even after reaching an area  s carrying capacity, Holocene human populations probably continued to grow in food-rich regions, overshooting the ability of the territory to feed the population, again within the context of the same subsistence strategy.
Hierarchies that did not exist in earlier foraging groups but that were helpful in structuring cooperative labor and in organizing more-complex technologies probably became established, even before domestication and agriculture, as pre-Neolithic societies (before the tenth millennium B C E) reacted to the population increase.
These nutrients eventually enrich the surface soil when the tree drops its leaves or when it dies and decomposes.
But even the more sensible naturalists of the day were guilty of a similar misconception.
As it turned out, the existence of the azoic zone had been disproved even before Forbes suggested it, and the theory continued to be contradicted regularly throughout its long and influential life.
Over a period of decades, dark-colored forms became an increasingly large fraction of some populations and eventually came to dominate peppered moth populations in certain areas  especially those of extreme industrialization such as the Ruhr Valley of Germany and the Midlands of England.
Anaximander, observing the motions of the heavens around the polestar, was probably the first of the Greek philosophers to picture the sky as sphere completely surrounding Earth--an idea that, elaborated upon later, would prevail until the advent of the Scientific Revolution in the seventeenth century. 
A scientific theory about the universe, however demands much more than the various observations and analogies that were woven together to form systems of reasoning, carefully constructed as they were, that would eventually culminate in Aristotle  s model of the world and the universe.
Careful habitat management increased this number to over 300 birds, but the single population remained vulnerable to local catastrophic events.
Before microscopes were first used in the seventeenth century, no one knew that living organisms were composed of cells.
However, cells, cellular organelles, and even molecules like DNA and protein are much larger than single atoms. 
By now, their numbers have undoubtedly grown even more, as they have continued to expand into new habitats where they were once either rare or absent, such as sandy prairies, deserts, coastal marshes, and mountains.
First, their success has been partially attributed to the growth of cities, as they often thrive in suburban and even urban settings.
When we look at the way in which biodiversity (biological diversity) is distributed over the land surface of the planet, we find that it is far from even.
It even affects the climate on a very local level (the "microclimate') by influencing light intensity, humidity, and both the range and extremes of temperature.
One species of North American newt is still active when temperatures drop to -2*C while one South American frog feels comfortable even when temperatures rise to 41*C  the highest body temperature measured in a free-ranging amphibian.
The tree frog Phyllomedusa sauvagei responds to evaporative losses with gland secretions that provide a greasy film over its entire body that helps prevent desiccation (dehydration).
The paintings generally illustrate ideas and events from the life of a mythical hero, who, after being healed by the gods, gave gifts of songs and paintings.
But as the Sun  s energy output slowly increased over time, the temperature at the surface would eventually have risen above 374  C. Above this temperature, no matter what the atmospheric pressure, Venus   oceans would have begun to evaporate, and the added water vapor in the atmosphere would have increased the greenhouse effect.
This would have made the temperature even higher and caused the oceans to evaporate faster, producing more water vapor.
With no oceans to dissolve it, outgassed carbon dioxide began to accumulate in the atmosphere, intensifying the greenhouse effect even more.
Temperatures eventually became high enough to "bake out" any carbon dioxide that was trapped in carbonate rocks.
The change from redistribution to formal trade-often based on regulated commerce that perhaps involved fixed prices and even currency  was closely tied to growing political and social complexity and hence to the development of the state in the ancient world.
Interest in long distance trade brought about some cultural homogeneity from trade and gift exchange, and perhaps even led to piracy.
A key event in the origin of many species is the separation of a population with its gene pool (all of the genes in a population at any one time) from other populations of the same species, thereby preventing population interbreeding.
Dinosaurs rapidly became extinct about 65 million years ago as part of a mass extinction known as the K-T event, because it is associated with a geological signature known as the K-T boundary, usually a thin band of sedimentation found in various parts of the world (K is the traditional abbreviation for the Cretaceous, derived from the German name Kreideieit).
This focus on explaining dinosaur extinction misses an important point: the extinction at the end of the Cretaceous was a global event that killed off organisms up and down the food chain.
The K-T event marked the end of the marine reptiles, such as the mosasaurs and the plesiosaurs, which were the largest creatures that had ever lived in the seas and which ruled the seas long before whales evolved.
So any event that can explain the destruction of the base of the food chain (plankton In the ocean, plants on land) can better explain what happened to organisms at the top of the food chain, such as the dinosaurs.
Callisto, the outermost of Jupiter's four largest satellites, orbits the planet in seventeen days at a distance from Jupiter of two million kilometers.
There are even indications of large-scale crustal movements that are similar to the plate tectonics of Earth.
In decision making, the whole body of citizens together would have the necessary knowledge in order generally to reach the right decision, even though the individual might not be particularly qualified to decide.
Greek philosophy  or even a focus on conscience  might complement religion but was no substitute for it, and this made Greeks receptive to the religious systems of the Middle East, even if they never adopted them completely The combination of the religious instinct of Asia with the philosophic spirit of Greece spread across the world in the era after Alexander  s death, blending the culture of the Middle East with the culture of Greece.
A complex sequence of chemical reactions is involved in converting the original solid organic matter to oil and gas, and additional chemical changes may occur in the oil and gas even after they have formed.
Most of the petroleum that forms in sediments does not find a suitable trap and eventually makes its way, along with groundwater, to the surface of the sea.
It is estimated that no more than 0.1 percent of all the organic matter originally buried in a sediment is eventually trapped in an oil pool.
Using this approach and considering all the sedimentary basins of the world, experts estimate that somewhere between 1,500 and 3,000 billion barrels of oil will eventually be discovered.
Over the last few decades, the term El  Nifio has come to be used to describe these exceptionally strong episodes and not the annual event.
Scientists try to document as many past El Nino events as possible by piecing together bits of historical evidence, such as sea-surface temperature records, daily observations of atmospheric pressure and rainfall, fisheries   records from South America, and the writings of Spanish colonists dating back to the fifteenth century.
One of the most significant evolutionary events that occurred on Earth was the transition of water-dwelling fish to terrestrial tetrapods (four-limbed organisms with backbones).
These fins eventually changed into short, stubby legs.
Since most seagrass systems are depositional environments, they eventually accumulate organic material that leads to the creation of fine-grained sediments with a much higher organic content than that of the surrounding unvegetated areas.
It is through Beringia that small groups of large mammal hunters, slowly expanding their hunting territories, eventually colonized North and South America.
Pollen is shed primarily when the air is dry to prevent too much sticking to wet surfaces or being knocked out of the air by rain.
Fire, for example, which is death to papyrus paper or other writing materials such as leather and wood, simply bakes it hard, thereby making it even more durable.
Clay, moreover, is cheap, and forming it into tablets is easy, factors that helped the clay tablet become the preferred writing material not only throughout Mesopotamia but far outside it as well, in Syria, Asia Minor, Persia, and even for a while in Crete and Greece.
They range from simple textbook material to literature-and they make an appearance very early, even from the third millennium B C E.
The slow but steady transformation of European society from almost completely rural and isolated to relatively more urban constituted the greatest effect of the commercial revolution that began in the eleventh century.
The commercial changes of the eleventh through fourteenth centuries did however, lay the economic foundation for the development of urban life and culture.
Many objects were not art in even the broadest sense and comprised utilitarian items of clothing, utensils, and equipment.
Likewise skills in the use of mosaic, wall painting, ceramic decoration, and metal-working developed throughout the province with the eventual emergence of characteristically Romano-British styles.
Architecture of this era reflected this with even the largest of the fortified towns and hill forts containing no more than clusters of medium-sized structures.
The spaces inside even the largest roundhouses were modest, and the use of rounded shapes and organic building materials gave buildings a human scale.
Its surface forms an uneven and rather rough platform around the coast, about the level of low water, and its outer edge slopes downwards into the sea.
However, the massive increase in population that in Europe was at first attributed to industrialization starting in the eighteenth century occurred also and at the same period in China, even though there was no comparable industrialization.
The transition between the Ming and Qing dynasties (the seventeenth century) may have seen a decline, but from 1741 to 1851 the annual figures rose steadily and spectacularly, perhaps beginning with 143 million and ending with 432 million.
Corn, for instance, can be grown on the dry soil and marginal hill land of North China, where it is used for food, fuel, and fodder and provides something like one-seventh of the food energy available in the area.
If we extend such observations to extinct dinosaurs, we can infer dietary preferences (such as carnivory and herbivory), even though we cannot determine the exact diet.
Such an event is especially probable if vertical mixing and dispersion of pollutants are inhibited.
Pollutants from urban areas may even affect the weather downwind from them.
These have changed constantly through time, even in relatively recent periods, as can be seen from the Neolithic stone circle of Er Lannic, in Brittany, France (once inland but now half submerged on an island) or medieval villages in east Yorkshire, England, that have tumbled into the sea in the last few centuries as the North Sea gnaws its way westward and erodes the cliffs.
The expansion and contraction of the continental glaciers caused huge and uneven rises and falls in sea levels worldwide.
Europe  s economic institutions, particularly those in England, were strong, had wealth available for new investment, and seemed almost to be waiting for some technological breakthrough that would expand their profit-making potential even more.
Ideas about agricultural reform developed first in Holland, where as early as the mid-seventeenth century, such modern methods as crop rotation, heavy fertilization, and diversification were all in use.
As early as the seventeenth century the Dutch were helping them drain marshes and fens where, with the help of advanced techniques, they grew new crops.
