In the 1760s, James Watt perfected a separate condenser for the steam, so that the cylinder did not have to be cooled at every stroke; then he devised a way to make the piston turn a wheel and thus convert reciprocating (back and forth) motion into rotary motion.
Soon it was realized that this principle of faunal (animal) succession was valid not only in England or France but virtually everywhere.
The physical bonds included the network of military garrisons, which were stationed in every province, and the network of stone-built roads that linked the provinces with Rome.
We also know that the global climate system is immensely complicated and that everything is in some way connected, and so the system is capable of fluctuating in unexpected ways.
The answer to such questions has nothing to do with a lack of skill or imagination on the part of Egyptian artists and everything to do with the purposes for which they were producing their art. 
To South Americans, robins are birds that fly north every spring.
In nearly every language, however the words are phrased, the most basic division in cinema history lies between films that are mute and films that speak.
Nearly every movie theater, however modest, had a piano or organ to provide musical accompaniment to silent pictures.
The bigger the animal is, the lower its surface-to-volume ratio; for every ounce of body mass, there is proportionately less surface through which heat can escape.
Insulation protects the leatherback everywhere but on its head and flippers.
American paleontologists David Raup and John Sepkoski, who have studied extinction rates in a number of fossil groups, suggest that episodes of increased extinction have recurred periodically, approximately every 26 million years since the mid-Cretaceous period.
This mode of craft production favored the growth of self-governing and ideologically egalitarian craft guilds everywhere in the Middle Eastern city.
But, while accepting that not everything in life can be explained by Darwinian evolution, there are sound reasons for being skeptical of theories like this one, which avoid the issue of what yawning does for adults.
Support for this theory came from a study of yawning behavior in everyday life.
It was argued that once hunter-gatherers had occupied the whole world, the population started to grow everywhere and food became scarce; agriculture would have been a solution to this problem.
Discovering the inputs and outputs of rivers is a matter of measuring the discharges of every inflowing and outflowing stream and river.
In a bad year for farming, everyone was equally affected.
The first documented English mill was in the eighth century, but three centuries later about 5,000 were recorded, suggesting that every settlement of any size had its mill.
Exactly why animals play is still a matter debated in the research literature, and the reasons may not be the same for every species that plays.
If evolution had been a continuous, gradual process, one might expect that almost every fossil specimen would be slightly different from every other. 
At every stage, clockmakers led the way to accuracy and precision; they became masters of miniaturization, detectors and correctors of error, searchers for new and better.
In addition, results from other types of preschool readiness programs indicate that those who participate and graduate are less likely to repeat grades, and they are more likely to complete school than readiness program, for every dollar spent on the program, taxpayers saved seven dollars by the time the graduates reached the age of 27. 
Of course, not every program produced all these benefits, and not every child benefited to the same extent.
Not everyone agrees that programs that seek to enhance academic skills during the preschool years are a good thing.
Most savannas probably experience mild fires frequently and major burns every two years or so.
These continued to include, of course, manuscripts of the Koran, which every Muslim wanted to read, but scientific works, histories, romances, and epic and lyric poetry were also copied in fine handwriting and decorated with beautiful illustrations.
Eventually, six round forms of handwriting, composed of three pairs of big and little scripts known collectively as the Six Pens, became the standard repertory of every calligrapher. 
Cort also developed heavy-duty, steam-powered rolling mills, which were capable of producing finished iron in every shape and form.
Not every researcher has been convinced that natural selection by birds is the only explanation of the observed frequencies of dark and light peppered moths.
He proposed water as the single substance from which everything in the world was made and developed a model of the universe with Earth as a flat disk floating in water.
The Forest Service  s announced goal became   Put out every forest fire by 10:00 A.M on the morning after the day when it is first reported.
Navajo women own the family flocks, control the sharing of the sheep, the carding, the spinning, and dying of the thread, and the weaving of the fabrics While the men who make faithful copies of sand paintings from the past represent the principle of stability in Navajo thought, women embody dynamism and create new designs for every weaving they make.
The Maya lived in a relatively uniform environment, where every community suffered from the same resource deficiencies.
When the bolide struck, this energy was released and generated a huge shock wave that leveled everything for thousands of kilometers around the impact and caused most of the landscape to burst into flames.
Second, this internationalism spelled the end of the classical Greek city-state    the unit of government in ancient Greece    and everything it stood for.
felt that the ideal city-state should have about 5,000 citizens, because to the Greeks it was important that everyone in the community should know each other.
Records indicate that during the sixteenth century, an El Nino occurred on average every six years.
Evidence gathered over the past few decades indicates that El Ninos are now occurring on average a little over every two years.
Most deciduous wind-pollinated trees (which shed their leaves every fall) produce their pollen in the spring while the branches are bare of leaves to reduce the surrounding surfaces that   compete" with the stigmas (the part of the flower that receives the pollen) for pollen.
Once the pollen has been snatched by the wind, the fate of the pollen is obviously up to the vagaries of the wind, but not everything is left to chance.
Commercial correspondence, unnecessary when one businessperson oversaw everything and made direct bargains with buyers and sellers, multiplied.
