For example, as the great ice sheets that covered North America during the last ice age steadily melted away, huge volumes of water flowed from them.
The result is that sandstone, for example, can be as porous as the loose sand from which it was formed.
For example, one sign of this condition is the appearance of the comic vision, since comedy requires sufficient detachment to view some deviations from social norms as ridiculous rather than as serious threats to the welfare of the entire group.
For example, some early societies ceased to consider certain rites essential to their well-being and abandoned them, nevertheless, they retained as parts of their oral tradition the myths that had grown up around the rites and admired them for their artistic qualities rather than for their religious usefulness. 
Species of birch, for example, may occur at the timberline in parts of the Himalayas.
Too much snow, for example, can smother trees, and avalanches and snow creep can damage or destroy them.
To take an extreme example, farmlands dominated by a single crop are so unstable that one year of bad weather or the invasion of a single pest can destroy the entire crop.
Once a redwood forest matures, for example, the kinds of species and the number of individuals growing on the forest floor are reduced.
The destruction caused by the volcanic explosion of Mount St. Helens, in the northwestern United States, for example, pales in comparison to the destruction caused by humans.
The protein content of shade-grown vegetation, for example, was much lower than that for plants grown in clearings.
For example, wild cattle (bovines) and horses are portrayed more often than we would expect by chance, probably because they were larger and heavier (meatier) than other animals in the environment.
So-called serpentine soils, for example, are deficient in calcium, and only plants able to tolerate low levels of this mineral can survive.
For example, British anthropologists G. Elliot Smith and W. J. Perry assumed that only Egyptians would have been skilled enough to navigate and colonize the Pacific.
For example, a well-known Burgess Shale animal called Sidneyia is a representative of a previously unknown group of arthropods (a category of animals that includes insects, spiders, mites, and crabs).
The thriving obsidian operation, for example, would necessitate more miners, additional manufacturers of obsidian tools, and additional traders to carry the goods to new markets.
There appear to be many unexplored matters about the motivation to reflect  C for example, the value of externally motivated reflection as opposed to that of teachers who might reflect by habit. 
Dutch land reclamation in the Netherlands in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries provides the most spectacular example of the expansion of farmland: the Dutch reclaimed more than 36.000 acres from 1590 to 1615 alone.
A classic example is noisy begging by nestling songbirds when a parent returns to the nest with food.
Most engravings, for example, are best lit from the left, as befits the work of right-handed artists, who generally prefer to have the light source on the left so that the shadow of their hand does not fall on the tip of the engraving tool or brush.
For centuries, the annual floods of the Nile, Tigris, and Euphrates, for example, have brought fertile silts and water to the inhabitants of their lower valleys.
For example, the stronger the primary group ties of a sports team playing together, the better their record is.
Normally, the constantly changing levels of an animal's activity  sleeping, feeding, moving, reproducing, metabolizing, and producing enzymes and hormones, for example  are well coordinated with environmental rhythms, but the key question is whether the animal's schedule is driven by external cues, such as sunrise or sunset, or is instead dependent somehow on internal timers that themselves generate the observed biological rhythms.
For example, if a uniformly moving pattern of some sort is passed across the visual field of a neonate (newborn), repetitive following movements of the eye occur.
For example, the claim that breakfast cereal has a health benefit may be accompanied by the disclaimer "when part of a nutritionally balanced breakfast."
Host selling occurs, for example, when a children's show about a cartoon lion contains an ad in which the same lion promotes a breakfast cereal.
For example, reservoirs at the Maya city of Tikal held enough water to meet the drinking water needs of about 10,000 people for a period of 18 months.
Indium, for example, had previously been assigned an atomic mass between those of arsenic and selenium.
For example, tellurium comes before iodine in the periodic table, even though its atomic mass is slightly greater.
For example, a gap just below aluminum suggested a new element would be found with properties analogous to those of aluminum.
An example of a parasite is a tapeworm that lives inside the intestines of a larger animal and absorbs nutrients from its host.
As an example, plants make chemicals toxic to fungal and bacterial parasites, along with ones toxic to predatory animals (sometimes they are the same chemicals).
For example, Australia during the 1940 s was overrun by hundreds of millions of European rabbits.
Another example of mutualism would be the bull's horn acacia tree, which grows in Central and South America.
Though it is true that many animals are strictly associated with certain plants, it is misleading to speak of a "spruce-moose biome," for example, because there is no internal cohesion to their association as in an organism.
They could trace the growth and shrinkage of continental glaciers, even in parts of the ocean where there may have been no great change in temperature  around the equator, for example.
However, in many places (for example, California, Hawaii, the Philippines, Japan, Mexico, the rift valleys of Africa)the resource is potentially so large that its future will depend on the economics of production.
Talking with parents about the past may enhance the development of the self-concept, for example, as well as help the child understand what it means to "remember."
For example, the wind can make a heat island stretch in the direction it blows.
The high prices encouraged the peasants to improve their animal husbandry techniques; for example, they began feeding their animals indoors in order to raise the milk yield of their cows.
For example, a pond in hilly country that maintains a steady water level all through a dry summer in spite of having no streams flowing into it must obviously be seepage dominated.
For example, during wakefulness   there is an immediate, automatic, adaptive increase in breathing effort when inhaling is made more difficult (such as breathing through a restrictive face mask).
Around Sand Canyon, for example, populations grew from 5 -12 people per square kilometer in the tenth century to as many as 30 - 50 by the 1200s.
For example, the ostrich has plumage that is so constructed that the feathers are long but not too dense.
(To take an example: the Sumerian word for " head   was   sag.
provides the earliest known example from Sumer, a roofed boxlike sledge mounted on four solid wheels.
For example, given the current position of the Pacific Plate, Hawaii is above the Pacific Ocean hot spot.
For example, sea stars prey on a variety of bivalve mollusks and prevent these bivalves from monopolizing habitats on the sea floor.
Prey species, like young deer or goats, for example, typically play by performing sudden flight movements and turns, whereas predator species, such as cats, practice stalking, pouncing, and biting.
Dogs, for example, will wag their tails, get down on their front legs, and stick their behinds in the air to indicate   what follows is just for play  .
The evolution of North American horses, which was once presented as a classic textbook example of gradual evolution, is now providing equally compelling evidence for punctuated equilibrium.
The four-toed Eohippus preceded the three-toed Miohippus, for example, but North American fossil evidence suggests a jerky, uneven transition between the two.
For example, Peter Sheldon  s studies of trilobites, a now extinct marine animal with a segmented body, offer a detailed glimpse into three million years of evolution in one marine environment.
In Europe, before the introduction of the mechanical clock, people told time by sun (using, for example, shadow sticks or sun dials) and water clocks.
For example, in the 1800s a monstrous earthquake changed the course of the Mississippi River, a large river flowing in the central part of the United States of America.
For example, during past ice ages, glaciers advanced down through North America and Europe and gradually cut off parts of populations from one another.
For example, savanna soils, like many rain forest soils, are typically oxisols(dominated by certain oxide minerals) and ultisols(soils containing no calcium carbonate), with a high acidity and notably low concentrations of such minerals as phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, and potassium, while aluminum levels are high.
For example, as many as 1,125 viable seeds per square meter were found in a 100-year-old Douglas fir/western hemlock forest in coastal British Columbia.
In 1977 ecologists Stephen Hubbell and Leslie Johnson recorded a dramatic example of how social interactions can produce and enforce regular spacing in a population.
One example shows how ants attracted to extrafloral nectaries protect morning glories against attacking insects.
However, good land may itself be limited    for example, to within the confines of a river valley.
For example, in highly acidic soils where few bacteria can survive, fungi frequently become the chief decomposers of organic matter. 
For example, caterpillars that feed on soot-covered leaves did not give rise to dark- colored adults Rather, pollution promoted the survival of dark forms on soot-covered trees.
An example of apparent translocation success involves the threatened Seychelles warbler.
For example, glass could be used to open up walls and eliminate their stone and brick masonry because large spaces could now be spanned with steel beams.
For example, in traditional architecture, stone or brick walls served a structural role, but in a steel-beam building the walls were essentially hung from the internal skeleton of steel beams, which meant that walls and corners no longer needed to be solid but could be opened up in unexpected ways.
At the Fagus shoe factory in Germany, for example, German architect Walter Gropius placed glass walls in the corners, effectively breaking open the box of traditional architecture and creating a new sense of light and openness.
For example, what looks to the unaided eye like a single star in the sky may be resolved as two stars with the help of a telescope.
As an example of the ease with which transplanted individuals can succeed, raccoons from Indiana (midwestern United States) have reportedly been able to flourish on islands off the coast of Alaska.
For example, a 21 percent reduction in the use of insecticide has been reported on Bt cotton (transgenic cotton that produces Bt toxin).
For example, monarch caterpillars feeding on milkweed plants near Bt cornfields will eat some corn pollen that has fallen on the milkweed leaves.
If this happens, a farmer can no longer use glyphosate, for example, to kill those weeds.
For example, canola readily hybridizes with mustard weed species and could transfer its herbicide-resistant genes to those weeds.
Farmers are attempting to slow the development of insect resistance in Bt crops by, for example, planting nontransgenic border rows to provide a refuge for susceptible insects.
To make Montana  s low-altitude ponderosa pine forest as an example, historical records, plus counts of annual tree rings and datable fire scars on tree stumps, demonstrated that a ponderosa pine forest experiences a lightning-lit fire about once a decade under natural conditions (i.e.., before fire suppression began around 1910 and became effective after 1945).
In a tropical rain forest, for example, a very large quantity of plant material builds up above the surface of the ground.
An area of grassland vegetation with very simple structure, for example, has a very differed microclimate at the ground level from that experienced in the upper canopy.
North of the Pyrenees Mountains, the natterjack toad offers a good example of hibernation, passing the winter dug deep into sandy ground.
For example, the most important traditional Navajo rituals include the production of large floor paintings.
For example, he argued that the introduction of domesticated vines and olives allowed a substantial expansion of land under cultivation and helped to power the emergence of complex society.
For example, the Grand Canyon, in the southwestern United States, separates the range of the white-tailed antelope squirrel from that of the closely related Harris' antelope squirrel.
For example, in less than two million years, small populations of stray animals and plants from the South American mainland that managed to colonize the Galapagos Islands gave rise to all the species that now inhabit the islands.
For example, some have blamed dinosaur extinction on the development of flowering plants, which were supposedly more difficult to digest and could have caused constipation or indigestionexcept that flowering plants first evolved in the Early Cretaceous, about 60 million years before the dinosaurs died out.
For example, water depth and turbidity (density of particles in the water) together or separately control the amount of light available to the plants and the depth to which the seagrasses may extend.
For example, in areas of the cold North Atlantic, ice may form in winter.
Fire, for example, which is death to papyrus paper or other writing materials such as leather and wood, simply bakes it hard, thereby making it even more durable.
The duck-billed dinosaurs known as hadrosaurs are a good example of a group whose jaw joint is below the level of the tooth row, which probably helped them grind up tough, fibrous vegetation. 
Isostatic uplift of the land occurs when the weight of ice is removed as temperatures rise, as at the end of an ice age; it has affected coastlines, for example, in Scandinavia, Scotland, Alaska, and Newfoundland during the postglacial period.
In Tokyo Bay, for example, shell mounds of the Jomon period (about 10,000 to 300 B.C.E.)
