It suddenly became public  an experience that the viewer shared with dozens, scores, and even hundreds of others.
They had experienced great difficulty finding game west of the Rockies and not until the second of December did they kill their first elk.
How might this inability to recall early experiences be explained?
Children two and a half to three years old remember experiences that occurred in their first year, and eleven month olds remember some events a year later.
General knowledge of categories of events such as a birthday party or a visit to the doctor's office helps older individuals encode their experiences, but again, infants and toddlers are unlikely to encode many experiences within such knowledge structures.
Their absence supports the picture of a cold, dry Mars that never experienced the extended mild period required to form lakes and oceans.
However, more recent data imply that at least some parts of the planet did in fact experience long periods in the past during which liquid water existed on the surface.
Educators T. Wildman and J. Niles (1987) describe a scheme for developing reflective practice in experienced teachers.
The hypothesis that begging calls have evolved properties that reduce their potential for attracting predators yields a prediction: baby birds of species that experience high rates of nest predation should produce softer begging signals of higher frequency than nestlings of other species less often victimized by nest predators.
In many instances, spectators in the era before recorded sound experienced elaborate aural presentations alongside movies' visual images, from the Japanese benshi (narrators) crafting multivoiced dialogue narratives to original musical compositions performed by symphony-size orchestras in Europe and the United States.
Within them, we experience companionship, love, security, and an overall sense of well-being.
Even more important, primary groups define social reality for us by structuring our experiences.
The ancient Maya were presumably more experienced and did better, but nevertheless they too must have faced risks of crop failures from droughts and hurricanes.
Many of those who experienced this sharp break thereafter lacked the ties that had bound them and their ancestors to a single place.
Earth had experienced previous periods of climatic change, and yet agriculture had not been developed.
Most people are not able to recount memories for experiences prior to the age of three years, a phenomenon called infantile amnesia.
Knowledge about narratives arises from social interactions, particularly the storytelling that children experience from parents and the attempts parents make to talk with children about past events in their lives.
They also provide children with reminders about the memory and relay the message that memories are valued as part of the cultural experience.
Thus, the types of social experiences children have do factor into the development of autobiographical memories.
Unfortunately this early plant experienced the problem common to many forms of renewable energy: the flow in the Wey River was unreliable, and the waterwheel was soon replaced by a steam engine.
Most of these things are learned in the long developmental periods that primates have, during which they engage in countless play experiences with their peers. 
In the United States, in comparison, parents regard the primary purpose of preschools as making children more independent and self-reliant, although obtaining a good academic start and having group experience are also important.
While many programs designed for preschoolers focus primarily on social and emotional factors, some are geared mainly toward promoting cognitive gains and preparing preschoolers for the formal instruction they will experience when they start kindergarten.
Savannas typically experience a rather prolonged dry season.
Savannas experience an annual rainfall of between 1,000 and 2,000 millimeters, most of it falling in a five- to eight-month wet season.
Most savannas probably experience mild fires frequently and major burns every two years or so.
To make Montana  s low-altitude ponderosa pine forest as an example, historical records, plus counts of annual tree rings and datable fire scars on tree stumps, demonstrated that a ponderosa pine forest experiences a lightning-lit fire about once a decade under natural conditions (i.e.., before fire suppression began around 1910 and became effective after 1945).
An area of grassland vegetation with very simple structure, for example, has a very differed microclimate at the ground level from that experienced in the upper canopy.
Working on their looms, Navajo weavers create images through which they experience harmony with nature it is their means of creating beauty and thereby contributing to the beauty, harmony, and healing of the world.
Guesses involve the use of accumulated experience from a century of drilling.
In an experiment that began in 1982, they compared these values with the number of plant species in each plot and discovered that the plots with a greater number of plant species experienced a less dramatic reduction in biomass.
In the Western experience, commerce provided the conditions that allowed industrialization to get started, which in turn led to growth in science, technology, industry, transport, communications, social change, and the like that we group under the broad term of   development.
