Other features, however, show experts that Pakicetus is a transitional form between a group of extinct flesh-eating mammals, the mesonychids, and cetaceans.
Many incomplete skeletons were found but they included, for the first time in an archaeocyte, a complete hind leg that features a foot with three tiny toes.
Two types of flow features are seen: runoff channels and outflow channels.
These flow features are extensive systems  sometimes hundreds of kilometers in total length  of interconnecting, twisting channels that seem to merge into larger, wider channels.
Proponents point to features such as the terraced   beaches   shown in one image, which could conceivably have been left behind as a lake or ocean evaporated and the shoreline receded.
Occasionally one can determine whether stone tools were used in the right hand or the left, and it is even possible to assess how far back this feature can be traced.
Flats and depressions where water can collect are common features, but they make up only a small part of the landscape.
Indeed, stability of the biological clock's period is one of its major features, even when the organism's environment is subjected to considerable changes in factors, such as temperature, that would be expected to affect biological activity strongly.
Such an external cue not only coordinates an animal's daily rhythms with particular features of the local solar day but also  because it normally does so day after day-seems to keep the internal clock's period close to that of Earth's rotation.
In a content analysis of Canadian television, the author Stephen Kline observed that nearly all commercials for character toys featured fantasy play.
So, it is no accident that with the appearance of pastoralist societies there appear large areas that share similar cultural, ecological, and even linguistic features.
Certain features of these engravings lead to the conclusion that they are of great age  geological changes had clearly happened after the designs had been made and local Aboriginal informants, when first questioned about them, seemed to know nothing of their origins.
The surface of Mars shows a wide range of geologic features, including huge volcanoes-the largest known in the solar system-and extensive impact cratering.
All four show distinctive lava channels and other flow features similar to those found on shield volcanoes on Earth.
Another prominent feature of Mars's surface is cratering.
The Martian atmosphere is an efficient erosive agent, with Martian winds transporting dust from place to place and erasing surface features much faster than meteoritic impacts alone can obliterate them.
All of these features appeared later in the evolutionary history of plants.
Ancient fresh water green algae must have evolved features that enable them to withstand extremes of temperature and periods of dryness.
The resulting adaptations to dry land include some structural features that arose early in plant evolution; now these features are common to virtually all land plant.
However, because the ocean basins really are short-lived features on geologic times scales, reconstructing the world  s geography by backtracking along the hot-spot trail works only for the last 5 percent or so of geologic time.
The punctuated equilibrium hypothesis attempts to explain a curious feature of the fossil record    one that has been familiar to paleontologists for more than a century but has usually been ignored.
More important than the amount of time Herodotus computed, which turns out to be trivial compared with the age of Earth, was the notion that one could estimate ages of geologic features by determining rates of the processes responsible for such features, and then assuming the rates to be roughly constant over time.
Some features formed when the crust cracked, flooding many of the craters with water from the interior.
It was in Egypt and Mesopotamia (modern-day Iraq) that civilization arose, and it is there that we find the earliest examples of that key feature of civilization, writing.
