As always, there are the power worshippers, especially among historians, who are predisposed to admire whatever is strong, who feel more attracted to the might of Rome than to the subtlety of Greece.
This was justified by the view that reflective practice could help teachers to feel more intellectually involved in their role and work in teaching and enable them to cope with the paucity of scientific fact and the uncertainty of knowledge in the discipline of teaching. 
Seeing and talking with one another in close physical proximity makes possible a subtle exchange of ideas and feelings.
Because they cannot verbalize or fill out questionnaires, indirect techniques of naturalistic observation are used as the primary means of determining what infants can see, hear, feel, and so forth.
In addition, children feel validated in their choice of a product when a celebrity endorses that product.
A final suggestion is that children must begin to develop a "theory of mind"  an awareness of the concept of mental states (feelings, desires, beliefs, and thoughts), their own and those of others  before they can talk about their own past memories.
The title Talbot chose for his book, The Pencil of Nature (the first part of which was published in 1844), reflected this feeling.
When people today are shown a very ordinary Roman pot and, in particular, are allowed to handle it, they often comment on how modern it looks and feels, and they need to be convinced of its true age.
In fact, according to developmental psychologist David Elkind, United States society tends to push children so rapidly that they begin to feel tress and pressure at a young age.
Farmers who use Bt transgenics may not feel that they need to follow through with integrated pest-management practices that use beneficial insects and timely applications of pesticides to control insect pests.
One species of North American newt is still active when temperatures drop to -2*C while one South American frog feels comfortable even when temperatures rise to 41*C  the highest body temperature measured in a free-ranging amphibian.
This was an architecture of dominance in which subject peoples were literally made to feel small by buildings that epitomized imperial power.
