Groundwater is the word used to describe water that saturates the ground, filling all the available spaces.
Why did theater develop, and why was it valued after it ceased to fulfill the function of ritual?
Thus, fantasy or fiction (of which drama is one form) permits people to objectify their anxieties and fears, confront them, and fulfill their hopes in fiction if not fact.
The skull is cetacean-like but its jawbones lack the enlarged space that is filled with fat or oil and used for receiving underwater sound in modern whales.
Estimates indicate that the aquifer contains enough water to fill Lake Huron, but unfortunately, under the semiarid climatic conditions that presently exist in the region, rates of addition to the aquifer are minimal, amounting to about half a centimeter a year.
Even if the new population is of a different species, it can approximately fill the niche vacated by the extinct population and keep the food web intact.
As the basin was refilled, normal marine organisms returned.
A 2003 Mars Global Surveyor image shows what mission specialists think may be a delta  a fan-shaped network of channels and sediments where a river once flowed into a larger body of water, in this case a lake filling a crater in the southern highlands.
In a surprisingly short time, angiosperms filled many of the land areas on Hawaii that had been bare.
The filling of the Ataturk and other dams in Turkey has drastically reduced flows in the Euphrates, with potentially serious consequences for Syria and Iraq.
But only a small fraction of groundwater enters the hydrological cycle  feeding the flows of streams, maintaining lake levels, and being recharged (or refilled) through surface flows and rainwater.
Because they cannot verbalize or fill out questionnaires, indirect techniques of naturalistic observation are used as the primary means of determining what infants can see, hear, feel, and so forth.
Because there is no space in the periodic table between these two elements, Mendeleyev suggested that the atomic mass of indium be changed to a completely different value, where it would fill an empty space between cadmium and tin.
Some of the demand for the services and goods was no doubt fulfilled by people drawn from far afield, but some local people certainly became entwined in this new economy.
As on our Moon, the smaller craters are often filled with surface matter-mostly dust-confirming that Mars is a dry desert world.
However, Martian craters get filled in considerably faster than their lunar counterparts.
craters too big to have been filled in by erosion since they were formed) serves as an age indicator for the Martian surface.
It contained a number of channels lined by a sequence of holes, about 50 centimeters deep, all showing burn marks and filled with ashes.
Between sediment grains are spaces that can be filled with water.
Sedimentary rocks  the most common rock type near the surface  are also the most common reservoirs for water because they contain the most space that can be filled with water.Sandstones generally make good aquifers, while finer-grained mudstones are typically impermeable.
The water table is the underground boundary below which all the cracks and pores are filled with water.
One moves from the task-oriented time consciousness of the peasant (working one job after another, as time and light permit) and the time-filling busyness of the domestic servant (who always hand something to do) to an effort to maximize product per unit of time. 
As more coal was produced, mines were dug deeper and deeper and were constantly filling with water.
Where neighbors are in the same position, having filled up the whole of the desirable habitat available in their home territories, expansion is also problematic.
They imagined the deep sea as being filled with an unmoving and undisturbable pool of cold, dense water.
The species of moa that are currently recognized occupied ecological niches customarily filled elsewhere by large mammalian browsing herbivores.
At one excavated Maori site, moa remains filled six railway cars.
However, loggers concentrated on removing those big, old, valuable, fire-resistant ponderosa pines, while fire suppression for decades let the understory fill up with Douglas fir saplings that would in turn become valuable when full-grown.
Cross sections cut through some of the fossils reveal that the mud filling the interior of the carcass differed in consistency and texture depending on its location inside the fish.
In the absence of a tradition of Classical stone-carving and building, the desire to develop Roman amenities would have been difficult to fulfill.
Even the pores in the wall are filled with water, which almost stops the diffusion of gases.
