An even more exciting find was reported in 1994, also from Pakistan.
An ecologist who studies a pond today may well find it relatively unchanged in a year  s time.
They had experienced great difficulty finding game west of the Rockies and not until the second of December did they kill their first elk.
In addition to finding an increase of suitable browse, like huckleberry and vine maple, Arthur Einarsen, longtime game biologist in the Pacific Northwest, found quality of browse in the open areas to be substantially more nutritive.
As oil becomes increasingly difficult to find, the search for it is extended into more-hostile environments.
The companies building the canals to transport coal needed surveyors to help them find the coal deposits worth mining as well as to determine the best courses for the canals.
He later worked on similar jobs across the length and breadth of England, all the while studying the newly revealed strata and collecting all the fossils he could find.
They were concerned that many would be   drawn to these new, refreshing   conceptions of teaching only to find that the void between the abstractions and the realities of teacher reflection is too great to bridge.
The question is not why they would leave the cold of winter so much as how they find their way around.
Orientation is simply facing in the right direction; navigation involves finding ones way from point A to point B.
The part of the brain responsible for fine control and movement is located in the left cerebral hemisphere, and the findings above suggest that the human brain was already asymmetrical in its structure and function not long after 2 million years ago.
We find it difficult to get to know people personally when they are milling about and dispersed in large groups.
Not surprisingly, sociologists find that the strength of a group's primary ties has implications for the group's functioning.
This finding was even more marked for heavy viewers of television.
New types of ships were needed, new methods of finding one's way, new techniques for financing so vast a scheme.
Natural selection favors the parasites that are best able to find and feed on hosts.
This fact was of enormous value in helping the national economies find their niches in the evolving currents of the international economy.
Unfortunately, the few scientific investigations of yawning have failed to find any connection between how often someone yawns and how much sleep they have had or how tired they are.
Once humans possessed such a mind, they were able to find an imaginative solution to a situation of severe economic crisis such as the farming dilemma described earlier.
Many find that understanding the general nature of autobiographical memory, that is, memory for events that have occurred in one's own life, can provide some important clues to this mystery.
Then exchanges with the atmosphere are calculated by finding the difference between the gains from rain, as measured (rather roughly) by rain gauges, and the losses by evaporation, measured with models that correct for the other sources of water loss.
Archaeologists find that even the most isolated residences during the eleventh and twelfth centuries obtained some pottery, and probably food, from some distance away, while major ceremonial events were opportunities for sharing food and crafts.
The beveled-rim bowl is one of the most telling diagnostic finds for indentifying an Uruk-period site.
Most researchers expect to find that both modes of transition from one species to another are at work in evolution.
We find evidence of such extended events in the fossil record, which affords glimpses into the breakup of formerly continuous environments.
), the best known of the earliest Greek philosophers, made the first steps toward a new, more objective approach to finding out about the world.
When we look at the way in which biodiversity (biological diversity) is distributed over the land surface of the planet, we find that it is far from even.
Where conditions are most suitable for plant growth  that is, where temperatures are relatively high and uniform and where there is an ample supply of water-one usually finds large masses of vegetation.
In contrast, small rodents may find a deep canyon or a wide river an effective barrier.
Most of the petroleum that forms in sediments does not find a suitable trap and eventually makes its way, along with groundwater, to the surface of the sea.
The argument seemed to be at a standstill until a number of recent studies resulted in a spectacular suite of new finds.
But this vegetation had a thin root mat with no soil formation, demonstrating that there was little long-term stability in plant cover, a finding supporting some of the arguments of Colinvaux.
In the open sea, animals can often find food reliably available in particular regions or seasons (e g., in coastal areas in springtime).
In contrast, the food levels in the deeper layers of the ocean are greatly reduced, and the energy constraints on the animals are much more severe To survive at those levels, animals must maximize their energy input, finding and eating whatever potential food source may be present.
It was in Egypt and Mesopotamia (modern-day Iraq) that civilization arose, and it is there that we find the earliest examples of that key feature of civilization, writing.
Archaeologists frequently find clay tablets in batches.
The Minnesota grassland research has been widely accepted as strong evidence for the diversity- stability theory; however, its findings have been questioned, and similar studies on other ecosystems have not always found a positive relationship between diversity and stability.
In the end, despite insightful attempts to detect some general patterns, we may find it very difficult to reduce this topic to a simple, universal truth.
To explain this sudden increase we cannot point to factors constant in Chinese society but must find conditions or a combination of factors that were newly effective in this period.
Similar finds in Corythosaurus specimens from Alberta, Canada, have also been reported, indicating that at least two kinds of Late Cretaceous hadrosaurs fed on the sorts of tress that are common in today  s boreal woodlands.
