This is usually followed by the drying of the soil and accelerated erosion. 
Alternatively, stability can be defined as the speed with which an ecosystem returns to a particular form following a major disturbance, such as a fire.
Consistent with this idea, according to the investigators, is the fact that the art of the cultural period that followed the Upper Paleolithic also seems to reflect how people got their food.
The Cambrian explosion involved rapid evolutionary diversification, followed by the extinction of many unique animals.
By following the fossils, Smith was able to put all the strata of England's earth into relative temporal sequence.
In the days following, samples of solid gypsum were repeatedly brought on deck as drilling operations penetrated the seafloor.
Furthermore, they fly to very specific places in South America and will often come back to the same trees in North American yards the following spring.
If this hypothesis is true, then it follows that nestlings should adjust the intensity of their signals in relation to the signals produced by their nestmates, who are competing for parental attention.
Each of these methods compares an infant's state prior to the introduction of a stimulus with its state during or immediately following the stimulus.
For example, if a uniformly moving pattern of some sort is passed across the visual field of a neonate (newborn), repetitive following movements of the eye occur.
In the multiplicity of small-scale local egalitarian or quasi-egalitarian organizations for fellowship, worship, and production that flourished in this laissez-faire environment, individuals could interact with one another within a community of harmony and ideological equality, following their own popularly elected leaders and governing themselves by shared consensus while minimizing distinctions of wealth and power.
As small countries dependent on foreign markets, they followed a liberal trade policy in the main, though a protectionist movement developed in Sweden.
When researchers measured the heart rate, muscle tension and skin conductance of people before, during and after yawning, they did detect some changes in skin conductance following yawning, indicating a slight increase in physiological activity.
Then a strong current of electrons follows that path from the cloud to the ground, and it is that current that illuminates the channel as the lightning we see.
The channel is only a few centimeters in diameter, but that is wide enough for electrons to follow the channel to the ground in the visible form of a flash of lightning.
That is why the subsequent lightning that follows the completed channel often strikes a tall structure.
Sometimes, however, a stream of electrons following an established channel is met by a positive stream making a new path up from the ground.
There were, however, fluctuations in the climatic conditions, with the consequences that wet conditions were followed by dry ones, so that the availability of plants and animals oscillated brusquely.
In the 1970s when the study of Australian archaeology was in an exciting phase of development, with the great antiquity of rock art becoming clear, Lesley Maynard, the archaeologist who coined the phrase   Panaramitee style,   suggested that a sequence could be determined for Australian rock art, in which a geometric style gave way to a simple figurative style (outlines of figures and animals), followed by a range of complex figurative styles that, unlike the pan-Australian geometric tradition tended to much greater regional diversity.
And has not twentieth-century art shown that naturalism does not necessarily follow abstraction in some kind of predetermine sequence?
The residence time is an average; the time spent in the lake by a given molecule (if we could follow its fate) would depend on the route it took: it might flow through as part of the fastest, most direct current, or it might circle in a backwater for an indefinitely long time.
Ecologists studying hare populations have found that the North American snow shoe hare follows a roughly ten-year cycle.
Lower birth rates, low juvenile suvivorship, and low growth rates follow, so there is a conrresponding decline in hare abundance.
In some cases, the water table reaches Earth's surface, where it is expressed as rivers, lakes, and marshes.Typically, though, the water table may be tens or hundreds of meters below the surface.The water table is not flat but usually follows the contours of the topography.
Instead of following the cattle on their annual migrations, the hunters began to prevent the herd from moving from one spot to another.
So the herders shifted south, following the major river systems into savanna regions.
In the following centuries, increasingly sophisticated waterpower mills were built throughout the Roman Empire and beyond its boundaries in the Middle East and northern Europe.
Raising water and grinding corn were by no means the only uses of the waterpower mill, and during the following centuries, the applications of waterpower kept pace with the developing technologies of mining, iron working, paper making, and the wool and cotton industries.
Dogs, for example, will wag their tails, get down on their front legs, and stick their behinds in the air to indicate   what follows is just for play  .
Although church ritual hand sustained an interest in timekeeping throughout the centuries of urban collapse that followed the fall of Rome, church time was nature  s time.
The steam engine of Watt and his followers was the technological advance that gave people, at least for a whild, unlimited power and allowed the invention and use of all kinds of power equipment.
These vitamins are produced only by another species; hence, a succession of species could occur whereby first the vitamin-producing species is present and then the vitamin-requiring species follows.
His two best-known followers, though there were undoubtedly others who attained less renown, were Anaximander and Anaximenes.
All we can say for certain about Anaximenes, who was probably born around 560 BCE, is that following in the tradition of Anaximander, he also disagreed with his mentor.
Released troops of monkeys were kept under visual observation and followed by radio tracking of 16 females.
Following a decline to a relatively low population level in the 1930s,  raccoons began to prosper following their 1943 breeding season.
Farmers who use Bt transgenics may not feel that they need to follow through with integrated pest-management practices that use beneficial insects and timely applications of pesticides to control insect pests.
This period was followed by a time of decline in the Maori population and a societal transition to smaller, less numerous settlements.
With its gene pool isolated, a separate population can follow its own evolutionary course.
The Egyptians were not far behind in developing writing, but we cannot follow the history of their writing in detail because they used a perishable writing material.
Depending on the location, time of year, and time of day, any or all of the following differences between cities and their surroundings can be important: albedo (reflectivity of the surface), surface roughness, emissions of heat, emissions of moisture, and emissions of particles that affect net radiation and the growth of cloud droplets.
