During the early stages of its development, a society becomes aware of forces that appear to influence or control its food supply and well-being.
Expanding populations are subjecting the land to increasing pressures to provide them with food and fuel.
Support for this idea came from the observation that long-lasting climax communities usually have more complex food webs and more species diversity than pioneer communities.
Even if the new population is of a different species, it can approximately fill the niche vacated by the extinct population and keep the food web intact.
Consistent with this idea, according to the investigators, is the fact that the art of the cultural period that followed the Upper Paleolithic also seems to reflect how people got their food.
But in that period, when getting food no longer depended on hunting large game animals (because they were becoming extinct), the art ceased to focus on portrayals of animals. 
Contrary to the arguments of some that much of the pacific was settled by Polynesians accidentally marooned after being lost and adrift, it seems reasonable that this feat was accomplished by deliberate colonization expeditions that set out fully stocked with food and domesticated plants and animals.
These peoples settled at first in scattered hunting-and-gathering bands, although in some places near lakes and rivers, people who fished, with a more secure food supply, lived in larger population concentrations.
This disruption of food chain and climate would have eradicated the dinosaurs and other organisms in less than fifty years.
It has been suggested that if the environment were capable of supporting breeding populations of bears, there would have been enough food resources to support humans.
Populations cannot grow unless the rural economy can produce enough additional food to feed more people.
So, in another set of experiments, Kramer put identical food boxes around the cage, with food in only one of the boxes.
The boxes were stationary, and the one containing food was always at the same point of the compass.
As long as the birds could see the Sun, no matter how their surroundings were altered, they went directly to the correct food box.
On overcast days, however, the birds were disoriented and had trouble locating their food box.
A classic example is noisy begging by nestling songbirds when a parent returns to the nest with food.
Given that predators can make it costly to beg for food, what benefit do begging nestlings derive from their communications?
One possibility is that a noisy baby bird provides accurate signals of its real hunger and good health, making it worthwhile for the listening parent to give it food in a nest where several other offspring are usually available to be fed.
If parent birds use begging intensity to direct food to healthy offspring capable of vigorous begging, then parents should make food delivery decisions on the basis of their offsprings   calls.
By doing so, they could possibly secure more food, which should result in more rapid growth or larger size, either of which is advantageous.
Therefore, a begging nestling that secures food at the expense of its siblings might actually leave behind fewer copies of its genes overall than it might otherwise.
Fantasy situations and settings are frequently used to attract children's attention, particularly in food advertising.
A shorter drought in which they exhausted their stored food supplies might already have gotten them in deep trouble, because growing crops required rain rather than reservoirs.
The mobility of pastoralist societies reflects their dependence on animal-based foods.
As a result, pastoralists, like carnivores in general, occupy a higher position on the food chain.
All else being equal, this means they must exploit larger areas of land than do agriculturalists to secure the same amount of food, clothing, and other necessities.
Parasitism is a kind of predator-prey relationship in which one organism, the parasite, derives its food at the expense of its symbiotic associate, the host.
Commensal associations sometimes involve one species' obtaining food that is inadvertently exposed by another.
In the second case, pollinators (insects, birds) obtain food from the flowering plant, and the plant has its pollen distributed and seeds dispersed much more efficiently than they would be if they were carried by the wind only.
The people of the Netherlands, with a long tradition of fisheries and mercantile shipping, had difficulty in developing good harbors suitable for steamships: eventually they did so at Rotterdam and Amsterdam, with exceptional results for transit trade with Germany and central Europe and for the processing of overseas foodstuffs and raw materials (sugar, tobacco, chocolate, grain, and eventually oil).
Its large population needed food and other supplies.
It was argued that once hunter-gatherers had occupied the whole world, the population started to grow everywhere and food became scarce; agriculture would have been a solution to this problem.
It would appear that the instability of the climatic conditions led populations that had originally been nomadic to settle down and develop a sedentary style of life, which led in turn to population growth and to the need to increase the amount of food available.
Nutrient-rich water is brought to the wetlands during each high tide, making a high rate of food production possible.
A daily input of water, food, and energy of various kinds is matched by an output of sewage, solid waste, air pollutants, energy, and materials that have been transformed in some way.
Importing the grain, which would have been expensive and time consuming for the Dutch to have produced themselves, kept the price of grain low and thus stimulated individual demand for other foodstuffs and consumer goods.
For people in cliff dwellings, hauling water, wood, and food to their homes was a major chore.
Growing food at these elevations is always difficult because of the short growing season.
Archaeologists find that even the most isolated residences during the eleventh and twelfth centuries obtained some pottery, and probably food, from some distance away, while major ceremonial events were opportunities for sharing food and crafts.
Scholars believe that this cooperation allowed people to contend with a patchy environment in which precipitation and other resources varied across the landscape: if you produce a lot of food one year, you might trade it for pottery made by a distant ally who is having difficulty with crops  and the next year, the flow of goods might go in the opposite direction.
Instead, the most sensible thing would be for neighbors to combine efforts to produce as much food as possible, and thus aggregated towns were a sensible arrangement.
Green algae store food as starch, as do land plants and have cell walls made of cellulose, similar in composition to those of land plants.
In general, the moose population is controlled by food availability, disease, and other factors rather than by wolves.
Low prey population levels then provide inadequate food for the predators, causing the predator population to decrease.
Two factors appear to be generating the cycle: food plants and predators.
The preferred foods of snowshoe hares are willow and birch twigs.
As hare density increases, the quantity of these twigs decreases, forcing the hares to feed on low-quality, high-fiber food.
As hare numbers fall, so do lynx numbers, as their food supply depleted.
When food was added to these plots (no food effect) and predators were excluded (no predator effect) from an experimental area, hare numbers increased tenfold and stayed there  the cycle was lost.
However, the cycle was retained if either of the factors was allowed to operate alone: if predators were excluded but food was not added (food effect alone), or if food was added in the presence of predators (predator effect alone).
Without predators, the species that is the best competitor for food, shelter, nesting sites, and other environmental resources tends to dominate and exclude the species with which it competes.
Both humans and animals were constantly on the move, in search of food and reliable water supplies.
The experiments with domestication probably occurred in many places, as people living in ever-drier environments cast around for more predictable food supplies.
In the case of animals it is usually food; in the case of forest plants it may be light; in the case of substrate inhabitants it may be space, as in many shallow-water bottom-dwelling marine organisms.
Many prehistorians believe that farming may have emerged in dependently in several different areas of the world when small communities, driven by increasing population and a decline in available food resources, began to plant seeds in the ground in an effort to guarantee their survival.
The first farmers, who may have lived as long as 10,000 years ago, undoubtedly used simple techniques and still relied primarily on other forms of food production, such as hunting, foraging, or pastoralism.
The increase in food production in these regions led to a significant growth in population, while efforts to control the flow of water to maximize the irrigation of cultivated areas and to protect the local inhabitants from hostile forces outside the community provoked the first steps toward cooperative activities on a large scale.
For most of human history, we have foraged (hunted, fished, and collected wild plants) for food.
In Henry's view, the adoption of a more settled existence in areas with abundant food resources would have contributed to higher fertility levels among the sedentary foragers.
Cereals, which are easy to digest, would have supplemented and then replaced mother's milk as the primary food for older infants.
So even after reaching an area  s carrying capacity, Holocene human populations probably continued to grow in food-rich regions, overshooting the ability of the territory to feed the population, again within the context of the same subsistence strategy.
Impinging on the neighbors' territory can lead to conflict, especially when they too are up against the capacity of the land to provide enough food.
Another option is to stay in the same area but to shift and intensify the food quest there.
The impulse to produce more food to feed a growing population was satisfied in some areas by the development of more-complex subsistence strategies involving intensive labor and requiring more cooperation and greater coordination among the increasing numbers of people.
Direct translocation has been used a wide range of plants and animals and was carried out to maintain populations as a source of food long before conservation was a familiar term.
Raccoons have been able to exploit crops, especially com but also cereal grains, which have become dependable food sources for them.
Various committees acted as an executive branch, implementing policies of the assembly and supervising, for instance, the food and water supplies and public buildings.
As agricultural economies became more diversified and local food supplies could be purchased both locally and over longer distances, a far-reaching economic interdependence resulted.
This focus on explaining dinosaur extinction misses an important point: the extinction at the end of the Cretaceous was a global event that killed off organisms up and down the food chain.
It wiped out many kinds of plankton in the ocean and many marine organisms that lived on the plankton at the base of the food chain.
So any event that can explain the destruction of the base of the food chain (plankton In the ocean, plants on land) can better explain what happened to organisms at the top of the food chain, such as the dinosaurs.
With the bottom of the food chain destroyed, dinosaurs could not survive.
Another impetus may have been new sources of food.
Evidence from teeth suggests that these earliest tetrapods did not utilize land plants as food; they were presumably carnivorous and had not developed the ability to feed on plants.
He makes this argument based on the anatomy of horse and bison, which do not have the ability to search for food through deep snow cover.
In the open sea, animals can often find food reliably available in particular regions or seasons (e g., in coastal areas in springtime).
In contrast, the food levels in the deeper layers of the ocean are greatly reduced, and the energy constraints on the animals are much more severe To survive at those levels, animals must maximize their energy input, finding and eating whatever potential food source may be present.
Sardines and anchovies provide the basis for huge commercial fisheries as well as a food resource for large numbers of local carnivores, particularly seabirds.
In the deeper waters of the oceans, there is a much greater tendency for animals to await the arrival of food particles or prey rather than to search them out actively (thus minimizing energy expenditure).
Another consequence of the limited availability of prey is that many animals have developed ways of coping with much larger food particles, relative to their own body size, than the equivalent shallower species can process.
First, if there are more species in an ecosystem, then its food web will be more complex, with greater redundancy among species in terms of their nutritional roles.
Subterranean termites, the destructive species that occurs commonly throughout the eastern United States, attain these conditions by nesting in moist soil that is in contact with wood, their only food.
The metabolism of so many termites and of the fungus that they grow in their gardens as food helps keep the interior of the nest warm and supplies some moisture to the air in the nest.
But of most critical importance was the food supply.
This increase of food supply was due perhaps half to the increase of cultivated area, particularly by migration and settlement in the central and western provinces, and half to greater productivity  the farmers   success in raising more crops per unit of land.
Corn, for instance, can be grown on the dry soil and marginal hill land of North China, where it is used for food, fuel, and fodder and provides something like one-seventh of the food energy available in the area.
The sweet potato, growing in sandy soil and providing more food energy per unit of land than other crops, became the main food of the poor in much of the South China rice area.
