Sediments are also dropped where a river slows on entering a lake or the sea, the deposited sediments are on a lake floor or the seafloor at first, but will be located inland at some future date, when the sea level falls or the land rises; such beds are sometimes thousands of meters thick.
Conversely, improved encoding of what they hear may help them better understand and remember stories and thus make the stories more useful for remembering future events.
The contribution of geothermal energy to the world's energy future is difficult to estimate.
However, in many places (for example, California, Hawaii, the Philippines, Japan, Mexico, the rift valleys of Africa)the resource is potentially so large that its future will depend on the economics of production.
Although the potential is enormous, it is likely that in the near future geothermal energy can make important local contributions only where the resource is close to the user and the economics are favorable, as they are in California, New Zealand, and Iceland.
But then steam power entered the scene, putting the whole future of waterpower in doubt.
An energy analyst writing in the year 1800 would have painted a very pessimistic picture of the future for waterpower.
However, like many later experts, this one would have suffered from an inability to see into the future.
They need to learn how to be dominant and submissive because each monkey might have to play either role in the future.
In the United States, the best-known program designed to promote future academic success is Head Start.
Preschoolers who participate in Head Start are better prepared for future schooling than those who do not.
Furthermore, graduates of Head Start programs have better future school grade.
The most recent comprehensive evaluation of early intervention programs suggests that, taken as a group, preschools programs can provide significant benefits, and that government funds invested early in life may ultimately lead to a reduction in future costs.
These rocks are then uplifted sometime in the future to form new mountain ranges, which exhibit the sedimentary layers (and the remains of life within those layers) of the earlier episodes of erosion and deposition.
Because the survival of organisms with particular characteristics is favored over the survival of other organisms in the same species that lack these characteristics, future generations of the species are likely to include more organisms with the favorable characteristics.
Is translocation successful if the individuals survive the first week or a year, or do they need to reproduce for one or several generations  Whatever the answer, it is clear that a general framework is required to ensure that any translocation is justified, has a realistic chance of success, and will be properly monitored and evaluated for the benefit of future efforts. 
It should be emphasized that the evolution of lungs and limbs was in no sense an anticipation of future life on land.
The Italians, on the other hand, had a clear typeface known as roman that became the type of the future.
