The fossil luckily includes a good portion of the hind legs.
Long-distance trade in obsidian probably gave the elite residents of Teotihuac  n access to a wide variety of exotic good, as well as a relatively prosperous life.
The thriving obsidian operation, for example, would necessitate more miners, additional manufacturers of obsidian tools, and additional traders to carry the goods to new markets.
Wildman and Niles make a summary comment:   Perhaps the most important thing we learned is the idea of the teacher-as-reflective-practitioner will not happen simply because it is a good or even compelling idea.   
Apparently, the most obvious reason for teachers to work toward reflective practice is that teacher educators think it is a good thing.
During the Six Dynasties period (AD 265-589), kilns in north China were producing high-fired ceramics of good quality.
By the middle of the sixteenth century, financiers and traders commonly accepted bills of exchange in place of gold or silver for other goods.
The exchanger would then send a bill of exchange to a colleague in Marseille, authorizing the colleague to pay the Marseille merchant in the merchant's own currency after the actual exchange of goods had taken place.
This capital financed the production of goods, storage, trade, and even credit across Europe and overseas.
One possibility is that a noisy baby bird provides accurate signals of its real hunger and good health, making it worthwhile for the listening parent to give it food in a nest where several other offspring are usually available to be fed.
Such rules limit variations in accumulated material goods between pastoralist households (though they may also encourage a taste for portable goods of high value such as silks or jewelry).
The people of the Netherlands, with a long tradition of fisheries and mercantile shipping, had difficulty in developing good harbors suitable for steamships: eventually they did so at Rotterdam and Amsterdam, with exceptional results for transit trade with Germany and central Europe and for the processing of overseas foodstuffs and raw materials (sugar, tobacco, chocolate, grain, and eventually oil).
Although goods could be requisitioned, they were usually paid for, and this probably stimulated changes in the local economy.
Some of the demand for the services and goods was no doubt fulfilled by people drawn from far afield, but some local people certainly became entwined in this new economy.
There is usually a good deal of turnover in species composition, even in a mature community.
Importing the grain, which would have been expensive and time consuming for the Dutch to have produced themselves, kept the price of grain low and thus stimulated individual demand for other foodstuffs and consumer goods.
The richest merchants in Amsterdam contributed money to reclaim a good 7,100 hectares of land.
If something blocks the "good" side, such as congestion from allergies or a cold, then resistance increases dramatically.
Competition for good farmland may also have prompted people to bond together to assert rights over the best fields.Another important push was the onset of the Little Ice Age, a climatic phenomenon that led to cooler temperatures in the Northern Hemisphere.
Scholars believe that this cooperation allowed people to contend with a patchy environment in which precipitation and other resources varied across the landscape: if you produce a lot of food one year, you might trade it for pottery made by a distant ally who is having difficulty with crops  and the next year, the flow of goods might go in the opposite direction.
Again, the good storage and cell wall molecules of red and brown algae are different.
The shift to increased mechanization in cotton production is apparent in the import of raw cotton and the sale of cotton goods.
Production of British cotton goods increased sixtyfold, and cotton cloth became Great Britain  s most important product, accounting for one-half of all exports.
A variety of documentation indicates that certain goods, once made by a family member as one of many duties, were later made by skilled artisans.
Sedimentary rocks  the most common rock type near the surface  are also the most common reservoirs for water because they contain the most space that can be filled with water.Sandstones generally make good aquifers, while finer-grained mudstones are typically impermeable.
This was a society with similarities to modern one  moving goods on a gigantic scale, manufacturing high-quality containers to do so, and occasionally, as here, even discarding them on delivery.
What is more significant than any geographical spread is the access that different levels of society had to good-quality products.
Whereas parents in China tend to see preschools primarily as a way of giving children a good start academically, Japanese parents view them primarily as a way of giving children the opportunity to be members of a group.
In the United States, in comparison, parents regard the primary purpose of preschools as making children more independent and self-reliant, although obtaining a good academic start and having group experience are also important.
Furthermore, some researchers argue that less-expensive programs are just as good as relatively expensive ones, such as Head Start.
Not everyone agrees that programs that seek to enhance academic skills during the preschool years are a good thing.
Under these conditions, it made good sense to thousands of peasant families to in effect work full-time at what they had been able to do only part-time previously because of the requirement to work for the government: grow rice for the marketplace. 
Village handicrafts diminished or died out completely as people bought imported consumer goods, like cloth and tools, instead of making them themselves.
Within these cities, new forms of livelihood appeared to satisfy the growing need for social services and consumer goods.
With their profits they purchased manufactured goods that earlier they might have made at home.
Thus while the value of goods shipped by river to New Orleans continued to increase, the South  s overall share of western trade dropped dramatically.
However, good land may itself be limited    for example, to within the confines of a river valley.
North of the Pyrenees Mountains, the natterjack toad offers a good example of hibernation, passing the winter dug deep into sandy ground.
The purpose and meaning of the sand paintings can be explained by examining one of the most basic ideals of Navajo society, embodied in their word hozho (beauty or harmony, goodness, and happiness).
Redistribution of these goods through society lay in the hands of chiefs, religious leaders, or kin groups.
Many ever-changing variables affected ancient trade, among them the demand for goods.
Most city-states had been quite small in terms of citizenry, and this was considered to be a good thing.
They could have been used as feeble locomotor devices on land, perhaps good enough to allow a fish to flop its way from one pool of water that was almost dry to an adjacent pond that had enough water and oxygen for survival.
Wind is very good at moving pollen a long way; pollen can be blown for hundreds of kilometers, and only birds can get pollen anywhere near as far.
Mesopotamia  s rivers boasted no such useful reeds, but its land did provide good clay, and as a consequence the clay tablet became the standard material.
The individual traveling merchant who alone handled virtually all aspects of exchange evolved into an operation invoh/ing three separate types of merchants: the sedentary merchant who ran the "home office," financing and organizing the firm  s entire export-import trade; the carriers who transported goods by land and sea; and the company agents resident in cities abroad who, on the advice of the home office, looked after sales and procurements.
These goods were exchanged for finished products, mainly cloth and salt, from western cities.
A good illustration of this occurred after sea otters were eliminated from some Pacific kelp (seaweed) bed ecosystems: the kelp beds were practically obliterated too because in the absence of sea otter predation, sea urchin populations exploded and consumed most of the kelp and other macroalgae.
In other words, in a rich system if a species is lost, there is a good chance that other species will take over its function as prey, predator, producer, decomposer, or whatever role it played.
After the Roman Empire  s conquest of Britain in the first century A.D., the presence of administrators, merchants, and troops on British soil, along with the natural flow of ideas and goods from the rest of the empire, had an enormous influence on life in the British Isles.
Mass-produced goods were accompanied by fewer more aesthetically impressive objects such as statuettes.
The duck-billed dinosaurs known as hadrosaurs are a good example of a group whose jaw joint is below the level of the tooth row, which probably helped them grind up tough, fibrous vegetation. 
The old monastic scriptoria-monastery workshops where monks copied texts by hand-worked closely alongside the new presses, continuing to produce the luxury goods that movable-type printing could not yet supply.
Imports included a variety of new beverages, spices, and ship  s goods around the world and brought money flowing back.
Because water transportation was the cheapest means of carrying goods to market, canals reduced prices and thus increased consumer demand.
Great Britain also had rich deposits of coal that fed the factories springing up in industrial and consumer goods. 
At the same time, people were moving to the city, partly because of the enclosure movement; that is, the fencing of common fields and pastures in order to provide more compact, efficient privately held agricultural parcels that would produce more goods and greater profits.
