Perceiving an apparent connection between certain actions performed by the group and the result it desires, the group repeats, refines and formalizes those actions into fixed ceremonies, or rituals.
But the myths that have grown up around the rites may continue as part of the group  s oral tradition and may even come to be acted out under conditions divorced from these rites.
For example, one sign of this condition is the appearance of the comic vision, since comedy requires sufficient detachment to view some deviations from social norms as ridiculous rather than as serious threats to the welfare of the entire group.
The fossil consists of a complete skull of an archaeocyte, an extinct group of ancestors of modern cetaceans.
Other features, however, show experts that Pakicetus is a transitional form between a group of extinct flesh-eating mammals, the mesonychids, and cetaceans.
It is now generally believed that these prerequisites originated with peoples speaking Austronesian languages (a group of several hundred related languages) and began to emerge in Southeast Asia by about 5000 B.C.E.
During a geologically brief 100-million-year period, all modern animal groups (along with other animals that are now extinct) evolved.
It contains no ancestors of modern animal groups.
At one time, the animals present in these fossil beds were assigned to various modern animal groups, but most paleontologists now agree that all Tommotian fossils represent unique body forms that arose in the early Cambrian period and disappeared before the end of the period, leaving no descendants in modern animal groups.
These fossil beds provide evidence of about 32 modern animal groups, plus about 20 other animal body forms that are so different from any modern animals that they cannot be assigned to any one of the modern groups.
The Burgess Shale formation also has fossils of many extinct representatives of modern animal groups.
For example, a well-known Burgess Shale animal called Sidneyia is a representative of a previously unknown group of arthropods (a category of animals that includes insects, spiders, mites, and crabs).
They designed an experimental strategy for a group of teachers in Virginia and worked with 40 practicing teachers over several years.
Helping this group of teachers to revise their thinking about classroom events became central.
In addition, there was an important group of sculptures made for religious use, the majority of which were produced in earthenware.
Apart from statues representing deities, kings, and named members of the elite that can be called formal, there is another group of three-dimensional representations that depicts generic figures, frequently servants, from the nonelite population.
Sociologists have built on the distinction between expressive and instrumental ties to distinguish between two types of groups: primary and secondary.
A primary group involves two or more people who enjoy a direct, intimate, cohesive relationship with one another.
Expressive ties predominate in primary groups; we view the people as ends in themselves and valuable in their own right.
A secondary group entails two or more people who are involved in an impersonal relationship and have come together for a specific, practical purpose.
Instrumental ties predominate in secondary groups; we perceive people as means to ends rather than as ends in their own right.
Sometimes primary group relationships evolve out of secondary group relationships.
A number of conditions enhance the likelihood that primary groups will arise.
First, group size is important.
We find it difficult to get to know people personally when they are milling about and dispersed in large groups.
In small groups we have a better chance to initiate contact and establish rapport with them.
And third, the probability that we will develop primary group bonds increases as we have frequent and continuous contact.
Primary groups are fundamental to us and to society.
First, primary groups are critical to the socialization process.
Such groups are the breeding grounds in which we acquire the norms and values that equip us for social life.
Sociologists view primary groups as bridges between individuals and the larger society because they transmit, mediate, and interpret a society's cultural patterns and provide the sense of oneness so critical for social solidarity.
Second, primary groups are fundamental because they provide the settings in which we meet most of our personal needs.
Not surprisingly, sociologists find that the strength of a group's primary ties has implications for the group's functioning.
For example, the stronger the primary group ties of a sports team playing together, the better their record is.
Third, primary groups are fundamental because they serve as powerful instruments for social control.
Should the use of rewards fail, members can frequently win by rejecting or threatening to ostracize those who deviate from the primary group's norms.
For instance, some social groups employ shunning (a person can remain in the community, but others are forbidden to interact with the person) as a device to bring into line individuals whose behavior goes beyond that allowed by the particular group.
Even more important, primary groups define social reality for us by structuring our experiences.
By providing us with definitions of situations, they elicit from our behavior that conforms to group-devised meanings.
Primary groups, then, serve both as carriers of social norms and as enforcers of them.
Consumer protection groups and parents believe that children are largely ill-equipped to recognize such techniques and that often exaggeration is used at the expense of product information.
However, the larger the terrain used to support a group, the harder it is to exploit that terrain while remaining in one place.
American paleontologists David Raup and John Sepkoski, who have studied extinction rates in a number of fossil groups, suggest that episodes of increased extinction have recurred periodically, approximately every 26 million years since the mid-Cretaceous period.
Various proposals were put forth to arrange the elements into groups based on similarities in chemical and physical properties.
The next step was to recognize a connection between group properties (physical or chemical similarities) and atomic mass (the measured mass of an individual atom of an element).
When the elements known at the time were ordered by increasing atomic mass, it was found that successive elements belonged to different chemical groups and that the order of the groups in this sequence was fixed and repeated itself at regular intervals.
Thus when the series of elements was written so as to begin a new horizontal row with each alkali metal, elements of the same groups were automatically assembled in vertical columns in a periodic table of the elements.
Rayleigh and Ramsay postulated the existence of a new group of elements, and in 1898 other members of the series (neon, krypton, and xenon) were isolated.
The planets in our solar system fall into two groups: the terrestrial (Earth-like) planets (Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars) and the Jovian (Jupiter-like) planets (Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune).
Other dimensions along which the two groups differ markedly are density and composition.
The substances that make up both groups of planets are divided into three groups  gases, rocks, and ices  based on their melting points.
By the later Roman period, frontier garrisons (groups of soldiers) were only rarely transferred, service in units became effectively hereditary, and forts were no longer populated or maintained at full strength.
They were no longer a series of small bands but lived in a large community with more elaborate social organization, probably grouped into clans of people of common descent.
Of today's different groups of algae, green algae are probably the most similar to ancestral plants.
This supposition stems from the close phylogenetic (natural evolutionary) relationship between the two groups.
So the most successful groups of land plants are those that evolved methods of fertilized sex cell dispersal that are independent of water and structures that protest developing embryos from drying out.
Certain images depict groups of people, most likely women, involved in weaving textiles, an activity we know from later third-millennium texts to have been vital in the economy and to have been centrally administered.
Like many other island groups, they form a chain.
In one research study, two groups of young rats were raised under different conditions.
One group developed in an   enriched   environment, which allowed the rats to interact with other rats, play with toys, and receive maze training.
The other group lived in an   impoverished   environment in individual cages in a dimly lit room with litter stimulation.
Learning appropriate social behaviors is especially important in species that live in groups, like young monkeys that need to learn to control selfishness and aggression and to understand the give-and-take involved in social groups.
The clock provided the punctuation marks for group activity, while enabling individuals to order their own work (and that of others) so as to enhance productivity.
In the absence of gene flow between the subpopulations, genetic differences between the groups begin to accumulate.
Some groups that had descended from the same parent population were no longer reproductively compatible  they had evolved into separate species.
In other groups, however, genetic divergences had not proceeded so far, and the descendants could still interbreed   for them, reproductive isolation was not completed, and so speciation had not occurred. 
Whereas parents in China tend to see preschools primarily as a way of giving children a good start academically, Japanese parents view them primarily as a way of giving children the opportunity to be members of a group.
In the United States, in comparison, parents regard the primary purpose of preschools as making children more independent and self-reliant, although obtaining a good academic start and having group experience are also important.
The most recent comprehensive evaluation of early intervention programs suggests that, taken as a group, preschools programs can provide significant benefits, and that government funds invested early in life may ultimately lead to a reduction in future costs.
Aggressive species usually forage in groups and feed mainly on flowers that occur in high-density clumps.
Nonaggressive species feed singly or in small groups and on more widely distributed flowers.
They predicted that the colonies of aggressive species would show regular distributions, while those of nonaggressive species would show random or closely grouped (clumped) distribution.
However, no group or species can maintain its dominance indefinitely, and when, after over 200 million years, the age of dinosaurs came to a dramatic end about 65 million years ago, mammals began to flourish, evolving from relatively few types of small terrestrial animals into the myriad of diverse species, including bats and whales, that we know today.
Overall, about 38 percent of the families of marine animals were lost, with percentages much higher in some groups Ammonoid mollusks went from being very diverse and abundant to being extinct.
Explanations for the K-T extinction were revolutionized in 1980 when a group of physical scientists led by Luis Alvarez proposed that 65 million years ago Earth was stuck by a 10-kilometer-wide meteorite traveling at 90,000 kilometers per hour.
Small nomadic groups could easily supply the necessities for their families.
One possible response to surpassing the carrying capacity of a region is for a group to exploit adjoining land.
Hierarchies that did not exist in earlier foraging groups but that were helpful in structuring cooperative labor and in organizing more-complex technologies probably became established, even before domestication and agriculture, as pre-Neolithic societies (before the tenth millennium B C E) reacted to the population increase.
Some species may be unable to thrive until a particular vitamin, or group of vitamins, is present in the water.
Many copepods (small, herbivorous crustaceans) and invertebrate larvae pick out selected phytoplankton species from mixed groups, changing the species composition.
A third group of bacteria inhabits the root systems of plants called legumes.
It uses an electron beam to scan the surface of a cell or group of cells that have been coated with metal.
and 450 B.C., evolved what Greeks regarded as a fully-fledged democratic constitution, though the light to vote was given to fewer groups of people than is seen in modem times.
This seems to be true for many different groups of animals and plants.
In many respects, such as education, occupation, and leisure activities, their life is like that of other groups that contribute to the diverse social fabric of North American culture in the twenty-first century.
Bartering was a basic trade mechanism for many thousands of years; often sporadic and usually based on notions of reciprocity, it involved the mutual exchange of commodities or objects between individuals or groups.
Redistribution of these goods through society lay in the hands of chiefs, religious leaders, or kin groups.
These included a variety of clams and snails, and especially the ammonites, a group of shelled squidlike creatures that dominated the Mesozoic seas and had survived many previous mass extinctions.
One of the groups whose fossils are especially common in rocks deposited in fresh water is the lobe-finned fish.
He includes in this group Caravaggio, Hans Holbein, Leonardo da Vinci, Diego Velazquez, Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres, Agnolo Bronzino, and Jan van Eyck.
It is through Beringia that small groups of large mammal hunters, slowly expanding their hunting territories, eventually colonized North and South America.
Many of the groups of animals that typify the filter-feeding lifestyle in shallow water have deep-sea representatives that have become predatory.
Conservation biologists have long been concerned that species extinction could have significant consequences for the stability of entire ecosystems  groups of interacting organisms and the physical environment that they inhabit.
Local workshops did develop and stylistically similar groups of sculpture show how skills in this new medium became widerspread.
On occasion large groups amassed for war or religious festivals, but society remained centered on small communities.
In the Western experience, commerce provided the conditions that allowed industrialization to get started, which in turn led to growth in science, technology, industry, transport, communications, social change, and the like that we group under the broad term of   development.
The duck-billed dinosaurs known as hadrosaurs are a good example of a group whose jaw joint is below the level of the tooth row, which probably helped them grind up tough, fibrous vegetation. 
