The same thing happens to this day, though on a smaller scale, wherever a sediment-laden river or stream emerges from a mountain valley onto relatively flat land, dropping its load as the current slows: the water usually spreads out fanwise, depositing the sediment in the form of a smooth, fan-shaped slope.
What happens depends on pore size.
Ecologists use the term   succession   to refer to the changes that happen in plant communities and ecosystems over time.
Thus the railroad age sprang from what had already happened in the eighteenth century.
Few people can remember anything that happened to them in their early years.
Before this happened, however, the Mediterranean was a vast desert 3,000 meters deep.
How did this tremendous development take place, and why did it happen in the Teotihuac  n Valley?
Wildman and Niles make a summary comment:   Perhaps the most important thing we learned is the idea of the teacher-as-reflective-practitioner will not happen simply because it is a good or even compelling idea.   
Thus it made sense to show the statue looking ahead at what was happening in front of it, so that the living performer of the ritual could interact with the divine or deceased recipient.
This happens in many work settings.
The rates of extinction happening today are as great as the rates during these mass extinctions.
What happens is that small (millimeter-to centimeter-size) pellets of ice form in the cold upper regions of the cloud.
However, the chances of escaping complete destruction are vastly improved if the organism happens to have a mineralized skeleton and dies in a place where it can be quickly buried by sediment.
Certain features of these engravings lead to the conclusion that they are of great age  geological changes had clearly happened after the designs had been made and local Aboriginal informants, when first questioned about them, seemed to know nothing of their origins.
The technological knowledge needed to carve it was far superior to that for stamp seals, which had happened in the early Neolithic period (approximately 10,000-5000 B.C.E.).
The effects of such competition are graphically demonstrated when all the animals or all the plants in an ecosystem come into competition, as happened 2 million years ago at the end of the Pliocene, when North and South America became joined by the Isthmus of Panama.
Two things made this possible and encouraged it to happen.
By the early twentieth century, as government modernization in a sense caught up with what had been happening in the countryside since the 1870s, the government bureaucracy intruded more and more into village life.
One was the particular study site he happened to use as a springboard for his sweeping postulate of a lifeless abyss.
As would later happen between another teacher-student pair of philosophers, Plato and Aristotle, Anaximander disagreed with his teacher despite his respect for him.
If this happens, a farmer can no longer use glyphosate, for example, to kill those weeds.
And what happened to the water on Venus?
So any event that can explain the destruction of the base of the food chain (plankton In the ocean, plants on land) can better explain what happened to organisms at the top of the food chain, such as the dinosaurs.
