He refused to develop projection technology, reasoning that if he made and sold projectors, then exhibitors would purchase only one machine-a projector-from him instead of several.
In 1969 he crossed the Atlantic in an Egyptian-style reed boat to prove Egyptian influences in the Americas.
In the 1760s, James Watt perfected a separate condenser for the steam, so that the cylinder did not have to be cooled at every stroke; then he devised a way to make the piston turn a wheel and thus convert reciprocating (back and forth) motion into rotary motion.
He received rudimentary village schooling, but mostly he roamed his uncle's farm collecting the fossils that were so abundant in the rocks of the Cotswold hills.
When he grew older, William Smith taught himself surveying from books he bought with his small savings, and at the age of eighteen he was apprenticed to a surveyor of the local parish.
He then proceeded to teach himself geology, and when he was twenty-four, he went to work for the company that was excavating the Somerset Coal Canal in the south of England.
He later worked on similar jobs across the length and breadth of England, all the while studying the newly revealed strata and collecting all the fossils he could find.
In 1815 he published the first modern geological map,   A Map of the Strata of England and Wales with a Part of Scotland,   a map so meticulously researched that it can still be used today.
As he collected fossils from strata throughout England, Smith began to see that the fossils told a different story from the rocks.
Particularly in the younger strata, the rocks were often so similar that he had trouble distinguishing the strata, but he never had trouble telling the fossils apart.
Not only could Smith identify rock strata by the fossils they contained, he could also see a pattern emerging: certain fossils always appear in more ancient sediments, while others begin to be seen as the strata become more recent.
At mid-century, an Antwerp financier only slightly exaggerated when he claimed,   0ne can no more trade without bills of exchange than sail without water."
Furthermore, he noticed that as they fluttered around in the cage, they often launched themselves in the direction of their normal migratory route.
To test this idea, he blocked their view of the Sun and used mirrors to change its apparent position.
At seven sites he found that 57 percent of the flakes were right-oriented, and 43 percent left, a pattern almost identical to that produced today.
Mendeleyev went further than Meyer in another respect: he predicted the properties of six elements yet to be discovered.
In the middle of the nineteenth century, Louis Agassiz, one of the first scientists to study glaciers, immigrated to the United States from Switzerland and became a professor at Harvard University, where he continued his studies in geology and other sciences.
In flat plains country, he saw moraines (accumulations of earth and loose rock that form at the edges of glaciers) that reminded him of the terminal moraines found at the end of valley glaciers in the Alps.
Some of he potential benefits relate directly to the healthy development of the brain and nervous system.
No significant discontinuities were observed, leading Sheldon to conclude that environmental conditions were quite stable during the period he examined. 
About 5 million years ago such geologic movements created the land bridge between North America and South America that we call he Isthmus of Panama.
By noting that individual floods deposit only thin layers of sediment, he was able to conclude that the Nile Delta had taken many thousands of years to build up.
He collected hundreds of different species of animals, and he saw that they were distributed in eight different depth zones, each containing its own distinct assemblage of animal life, the way zones of elevation on the side of a mountain are populated by distinct sets of plants. 
Forbes also thought he saw, as he later told the British Association, that   the number of species and individuals diminishes as we descend, pointing to a zero in the distribution of animal life as yet unvisited.
This zero, Forbes casually speculated--he simply extended a line on his graph of animal number versus depth--probably began at a depth of 1,800 feet.
He found that the deeper the water, the colder it got, and he concluded that the seafloor was covered with a thick layer of ice.
One was the particular study site he happened to use as a springboard for his sweeping postulate of a lifeless abyss.
Modern soundings indicate he overestimated his depths by several hundred fathoms, but in any case Ross  s clam dove several times deeper than Forbes  s dredge.
In the nonindustrial area of Dorset, he recaptured 14 6 percent of the pale forms but only 4 7 percent of the dark forms.
Many others had asked the same question before him, but Thales based his answer strictly on what he had observed and what he could reason out--not on imaginative stories about the gods or the supernatural.
He doubted that the world and all its contents could be made of water and proposed instead a formless and unobservable substance he called   apeiron   that was the source of all matter.
Although he did not accept that water was the prime element, he did believe that all life originated in the sea, and he was thus one of the first to conceive of this important idea.
All we can say for certain about Anaximenes, who was probably born around 560 BCE, is that following in the tradition of Anaximander, he also disagreed with his mentor.
The first steps toward change were taken by Solon in 594 B.C., when he broke the aristocracy  s stranglehold on elected offices by establishing wear rather than birth as the basis of office holding, abolishing the economic obligations of ordinary Athenians to the aristocracy, and allowing the assembly (of which all citizens were equal members) to overrule the decisions of local courts in certain cases.
For example, he argued that the introduction of domesticated vines and olives allowed a substantial expansion of land under cultivation and helped to power the emergence of complex society.
was the first person in Greece to propose a morality based on individual conscience rather than the demands of the state, and for this he was accused of not believing in the city  s gods and so corrupting the youth, and he was condemned to death.
In experimenting with it, he found that it is actually quite difficult to use for drawing, and he speculates that the artists probably combined their observations from life with tracing of shapes.
He found that the amount of pollen recovered in these sediments is so low that the Beringian landscape during the peak of the last glaciation was more likely to have been what he termed a "polar desert," with little or only sparse vegetation, in no way was it possible that this region could have supported large herds of mammals and thus, human hunters.
So when a conqueror set a Mesopotamian palace ablaze, he helped ensure the survival of any clay tablets in it.
He recognized that there were three major kinds: fringing reefs, barrier reefs, and atolls; and he saw that they were related to each other in a logical and gradational sequence.
As Gutenberg, apart from getting the key idea, had to solve a lot of practical problems, including imposing paper and ink into the process and the actual printing itself, for which he adapted the screw press used by winemakers, it is amazing that his first product does not look at all rudimentary.
