Later on in the early years of the nineteenth century, when Fort Vancouver became the headquarters of the Hudson's Bay Company, deer populations continued to fluctuate.
The world looks very different to a person whose head is only two or three feet above the ground than to one whose head is five or six feet above it.
The majority of three-dimensional representations, whether standing, seated, or kneeling, exhibit what is called frontality: they face straight ahead, neither twisting nor turning.
Thus it made sense to show the statue looking ahead at what was happening in front of it, so that the living performer of the ritual could interact with the divine or deceased recipient.
Similarly, changes in the infant's general level of motor activity   turning the head, blinking the eyes, crying, and so forth    have been used by researchers as visual indicators of the infant's perceptual abilities.
Large loggerhead and green turtles can maintain their body temperature at a degree or two above that of the surrounding water, and gigantothermy is probably the way they do it.
Insulation protects the leatherback everywhere but on its head and flippers.
This species, which lives in the rain forests and scrublands of the east coast of Australia, has a brown-to-black plumage with bare, bright-red skin on the head and neck and a neck collar of orange-yellow loosely hanging skin.
(To take an example: the Sumerian word for " head   was   sag.
Buck rubs also have a scent produced by glands in the foreheads of deer that is transferred to the tree when the rub is made.
The importance of olfactory communication (using odors to communicate) in the way of life of deer was documented by a study of captive adult mule deer a few decades ago, which noted that males rubbed their foreheads on branches and twigs, especially as autumn approached.
A decade later another study reported that adult male white-tailed deer exhibited forehead rubbing just before and during the rut.
It was found that when a white-tailed buck makes a rub, it moves both antlers and forehead glands along the small tree in a vertical direction.
This forehead rubbing behavior coincides with a high level of glandular activity in the modified scent glands found on the foreheads of male deer; the glandular activity causes the forehead pelage (hairy covering) of adult males to be distinctly darker than in females or younger males.
Forehead rubbing by male deer on buck rubs presumably sends a great deal of information to other members of the same species.
(They also proved that, in principle, the overshot wheel, a type of wheel in which an overhead stream of water powers the wheel, should win the efficiency competition.)
