Water or steam may be pumped down adjacent wells to help push the oil out.
Advancing technology and strict laws, however, are helping control some of these adverse environmental effects. 
The companies building the canals to transport coal needed surveyors to help them find the coal deposits worth mining as well as to determine the best courses for the canals.
Hearing and telling stories about events may help children store information in ways that will endure into later childhood and adulthood.
General knowledge of categories of events such as a birthday party or a visit to the doctor's office helps older individuals encode their experiences, but again, infants and toddlers are unlikely to encode many experiences within such knowledge structures.
Conversely, improved encoding of what they hear may help them better understand and remember stories and thus make the stories more useful for remembering future events.
This was justified by the view that reflective practice could help teachers to feel more intellectually involved in their role and work in teaching and enable them to cope with the paucity of scientific fact and the uncertainty of knowledge in the discipline of teaching. 
Support and encouragement were also required to help teachers in the program cope with aspects of their professional life with which they were not comfortable.
Lichens helped to speed the decomposition of the hard rock surfaces, preparing a soft bed of soil that was abundantly supplied with minerals that had been carried in the molten rock from the bowels of Earth.
More extended trading networks also helped develop Europe's economy in this period.
In Berlin, for the premiere performance outside the Soviet Union of The Battleship Potemkin, film director Sergei Eisenstein worked with Austrian composer Edmund Meisel (1874-1930) on a musical score matching sound to image; the Berlin screenings with live music helped to bring the film its wide international fame.
In particular, pastoralism favors a mobile lifestyle, and this mobility helps to explain the impact of pastoralist societies on this part of the world.
A leatherback may be able to pick up some body heat by basking at the surface; its dark, almost black body color may help it to absorb solar radiation.
Muscular activity helps, too, and an actively swimming green turtle may be 7  C (12.6  F) warmer than the waters it swims through.
Western Europeans had also developed and put into use the magnetic compass, which helped when clouds obliterated both the Sun and the stars.
It is difficult to imagine how this could affect the cattle, but the relationship may help or hinder them in some way not yet recognized.
This fact was of enormous value in helping the national economies find their niches in the evolving currents of the international economy.
It might be that yawning helps to clear out the lungs by periodically lowering the pressure in them.
Furthermore, the number of interactions is so great that they are difficult to analyze, even with the help of large computers.
Certain characteristics of American society help to explain this remarkable migration.
Therefore, these social traits helped to produce the nomadic and daring settlers who kept pushing westward beyond the fringes of settlement.
Talking with parents about the past may enhance the development of the self-concept, for example, as well as help the child understand what it means to "remember."
Some of the muscles that help keep the upper airway open when breathing tend to become more relaxed during sleep, especially during REM (the phase of sleep in which there is rapid eye movement).
No longer was it helpful to share widely.
So once natural selection had shaped the adaptations that helped plants overcome the obstacles to terrestrial living, plants prospered and diversified.
These include conducting vessels that transport water and minerals upward from the roots and that move the photosynthetic products from the leaves to the rest of the plant body and the stiffening substance lignin, which support the plant body, helping it expose maximum surface area to sunlight.
Until the eighteenth century, people relied on energy derived from plants as well as animal and human muscle to provide power Increased efficiency in the use of water and wind helped with such tasks as pumping, milling, or sailing.
The engine helped solve the problem of draining coal mines of groundwater and increased the production of coal needed to power steam engines elsewhere.
Most plant tissues die if their water content falls too low: the nutrients that feed plants are transmitted by water; water is a raw material in the vital process of photosynthesis; and water regulates the temperature of a plant by its ability to absorb heat and because water vapor lost to the atmosphere through the leaves helps to lower plant temperatures.
In view of this behavior it has been suggested that chemicals present in fresh buck rubs may help physiologically induce and synchronize fertility in females that visit these rubs.
The use of powerful, steam-driven bellows in blast furnaces helped iron makers switch over rapidly from limited charcoal to unlimited coke (which is made from coal) in the smelting of pig iron (the process of refining impure iron) after 1770.
Hierarchies that did not exist in earlier foraging groups but that were helpful in structuring cooperative labor and in organizing more-complex technologies probably became established, even before domestication and agriculture, as pre-Neolithic societies (before the tenth millennium B C E) reacted to the population increase.
The numerous plants and animals living in the soil release minerals from the parent material from which soil is formed, supply organic matter, aid in the translocation (movement) and aeration of the soil, and help protect the soil from erosion.
For example, what looks to the unaided eye like a single star in the sky may be resolved as two stars with the help of a telescope.
That happy situation began to change in the 1980s, due to the increasing frequency of large forest fires that were essentially impossible to extinguish unless rain and low winds combined to help.
The tree frog Phyllomedusa sauvagei responds to evaporative losses with gland secretions that provide a greasy film over its entire body that helps prevent desiccation (dehydration).
For example, he argued that the introduction of domesticated vines and olives allowed a substantial expansion of land under cultivation and helped to power the emergence of complex society.
These adaptations developed because they helped fish to survive in their existing aquatic environment.
There are various adaptations to help as much of the pollen go as far as possible.
But stigmas create turbulence, which slows the air speed around them and may help pollen stick to them.
So when a conqueror set a Mesopotamian palace ablaze, he helped ensure the survival of any clay tablets in it.
Clay, moreover, is cheap, and forming it into tablets is easy, factors that helped the clay tablet become the preferred writing material not only throughout Mesopotamia but far outside it as well, in Syria, Asia Minor, Persia, and even for a while in Crete and Greece.
The metabolism of so many termites and of the fungus that they grow in their gardens as food helps keep the interior of the nest warm and supplies some moisture to the air in the nest.
However, in addition to corals there are enormous quantities of algae, some calcareous, which help to build the reefs.
The duck-billed dinosaurs known as hadrosaurs are a good example of a group whose jaw joint is below the level of the tooth row, which probably helped them grind up tough, fibrous vegetation. 
This process helps explain why both tend to be more frequent over cities.
Internally, Britain was endowed with easily navigable natural waterway, which helped its trade and communication with the world.
Beginning in the 1770  s, it enjoyed a boom in canal building, which helped make its domestic market more accessible.
Britain  s relatively stable government also helped create an atmosphere conducive to industrial progress.
Great Britain  s better-developed banking and credit system also helped speed the industrial progress, as did the fact that it was the home of an impressive array of entrepreneurs and inventors.
As early as the seventeenth century the Dutch were helping them drain marshes and fens where, with the help of advanced techniques, they grew new crops.
