The water evaporates and the salts are left behind, creating a white crustal layer that prevents air and water from reaching the underlying soil. 
Architecture is the art and science of designing structures that organize and enclose space for practical and symbolic purposes.
Because architecture grows out of human needs and aspirations, it clearly communicates cultural values.
Of all the visual arts, architecture affects our lives most directly for it determines the character of the human environment in major ways.
Architecture is a three-dimensional form.
To be architecture, a building must achieve a working harmony with a variety of elements.
It is the work of architects to create buildings that are not simply constructions but also offer inspiration and delight.
The client who pays for the building and defines its function is an important member of the architectural team.
The mediocre design of many contemporary buildings can be traced to both clients and architects.
In order for the structure to achieve the size and strength necessary to meet its purpose, architecture employs methods of support that, because they are based on physical laws, have changed little since people first discovered them  even while building materials have changed dramatically.
The world  s architectural structures have also been devised in relation to the objective limitations of materials.
Even development in architecture has been the result of major technological changes.
Materials and methods of construction are integral parts of the design of architecture structures.
Modern architectural forms generally have three separate components comparable to elements of the human body: a supporting skeleton or frame, an outer skin enclosing the interior spaces, and equipment, similar to the body  s vital organs and systems.
Of course in early architecture  such as igloos and adobe structures  there was no such equipment, and the skeleton and skin were often one.
Much of the world  s great architecture has been constructed of stone because of its beauty, permanence, and availability.
Some of the world  s finest stone architecture can be seen in the ruins of the ancient Inca city of Machu Picchu high in the eastern Andes Mountains of Peru.
A structural invention had to be made before the physical limitations of stone could be overcome and new architectural forms could be created.
The arch is among the many important structural breakthroughs that have characterized architecture throughout the centuries.
The other species, the Columbian white-tailed deer, in earlier times was common in the open prairie country; it is now restricted to the low, marshy islands and flood plains along the lower Columbia River. 
Recall the fate of the Columbian white-tailed deer, now in a protected status.
Mineral deficiencies can often be detected by specific symptoms such as chlorosis (loss of chlorophyll resulting in yellow or white leaf tissue), necrosis (isolated dead patches), anthocyanin formation (development of deep red pigmentation of leaves or stem), stunted growth, and development of woody tissue in an herbaceous plant.
The ceramics fall into three broad types  earthenware, stoneware, and porcelain  for vessels, architectural items such as roof tiles, and modeled objects and figures.
Whitewares produced in Hebei and Henan provinces from the seventh to the tenth centuries evolved into the highly prized porcelains of the Song dynasty (AD.
The tradition of religious sculpture extends over most historical periods but is less clearly delineated than that of stonewares or porcelains, for it embraces the old custom of earthenware burial ceramics with later religious images and architectural ornament.
Other statues were designed to be placed within an architectural setting, for instance, in front of the monumental entrance gateways to temples known as pylons, or in pillared courts, where they would be placed against or between pillars: their frontality worked perfectly within the architectural context.
The images produced by the camera obscura, a boxlike device that used a pinhole or lens to throw an image onto a ground-glass screen or a piece of white paper, were already familiar  the device had been much employed by topographical artists like the Italian painter Canaletto in his detailed views of the city of Venice.
The calotype was revolutionary in its use of chemically treated paper in which areas hit by light became dark in tone, producing a negative image.
Equally perplexing constituents of Allende are the refractory inclusions: irregular white masses that tend to be larger than chondrules.
As densities increased, domestic architecture became larger, culminating in crowded pueblos.
Other islands, including Tahiti and Easter Islands in the Pacific, Reunion and Mauritius in the Indian Ocean, an indeed most of the large islands in the world  s oceans, owe their existence to mantle plumes.
A conspicuous sign indicating the presence of white-tailed deer in a woodlot is a buck rub.
A decade later another study reported that adult male white-tailed deer exhibited forehead rubbing just before and during the rut.
It was found that when a white-tailed buck makes a rub, it moves both antlers and forehead glands along the small tree in a vertical direction.
Because both sexes of whitetails respond to buck rubs by smelling and licking them, rubs may serve a very important additional function.
Another visual signal produced by white-tailed deer is termed a buck scrape.
Forests on white, sandy soil are most susceptible to permanent alteration. 
When the two bees hit the ground, they separated, faced off, and performed another aerial display.
The increased availability of paper, particularly after 1250, encouraged people to develop systems of representation, such as architectural plans and drawings.
Originally moths were uniformly pale gray or whitish in color; dark-colored (melanic) individuals were rare and made up less than 2 percent of the population.
On one hand were the buildings produced for the wealthy or for civic purposes, which tended to echo the architecture of the past and to use traditional styles of ornamentation.
Such buildings, however, were viewed in a category separate from   fine   architecture, and in fact were often designed by engineers and builders rather than architects.
The development of modern architecture might in large part be seen as an adaptation of this sort of functional building and its pervasive application for daily use.
Indeed, in this influential book Toward a New Architecture, the Swiss architect Le Corbusier illustrated his text with photographs of American factories and grain storage silos, as well as ships, airplanes, and other industrial objects.
Nonetheless, modern architects did not simply employ these new materials in a strictly practical fashion---they consciously exploited their aesthetic possibilities.
The fundamental premise of modern architecture was that the appearance of the building should exhibit the nature of its materials and forms of physical support.
This often led to effects that looked odd from a traditional standpoint but that became hallmarks of modern architecture for precisely this reason.
For example, in traditional architecture, stone or brick walls served a structural role, but in a steel-beam building the walls were essentially hung from the internal skeleton of steel beams, which meant that walls and corners no longer needed to be solid but could be opened up in unexpected ways.
At the Fagus shoe factory in Germany, for example, German architect Walter Gropius placed glass walls in the corners, effectively breaking open the box of traditional architecture and creating a new sense of light and openness.
These dramatic balconies quickly became a signature of modern architects such as Frank Lloyd Wright.
The ways in which new technology transformed architectural design are dramatically illustrated through the evolution of the high-rise office building.
Such buildings were so different from any previous form of architecture that they quickly acquired a new name  the skyscraper.
Biologists use the scanning electron microscope to study the detailed architecture of cell surfaces.
When the metal is hit by the beam, it emits electrons.
Structure is essentially the architecture of vegetation, and as in the case of some tropical forests, it can be extremely complicated.
Forests in temperate lands often have just two canopy layers, so they have much less complex architecture.
Working from the inside of the design outward, the Navajo artist and his assistants will sift the black, white, bluish-gray, orange, and red materials through their fingers to create the finely detailed imagery.
For example, the Grand Canyon, in the southwestern United States, separates the range of the white-tailed antelope squirrel from that of the closely related Harris' antelope squirrel.
Smaller, with a shorter tail that is white underneath, the white-tailed antelope squirrel inhabits deserts north of the canyon and west of the Colorado River in southern California.
When one of Vermeer  s paintings was X-rayed, it did not have any preliminary sketches on the canvas beneath the paint, but rather the complete image drawn in black and white without any trial sketches.
Pollen produced higher in the top branches is likely to go farther: it is windier (and gustier) and the pollen can be blown farther before hitting the ground.
Cultural influences were of three types: the bringing of objects, the transfer of craft workers, and the introduction of massive civil architecture.
Administrators thus used their personal contacts to put the Britons in touch with architects and masons.
Architecture of this era reflected this with even the largest of the fortified towns and hill forts containing no more than clusters of medium-sized structures.
But the effect of Roman civil architecture was significant.
This was an architecture of dominance in which subject peoples were literally made to feel small by buildings that epitomized imperial power.
Termites, social insects which live in colonies that, in some species, contain 2 million individuals or more, are often incorrectly referred to as white ants.
Among the most architecturally advanced of these termites is an African species, Macroternes natalensis.
