These expeditions were likely driven by population growth and political dynamics on the home islands, as well as the challenge and excitement of exploring unknown waters.  
Woolens and textile manufacturers, in particular, utilized rural cottage (in-home) production, which took advantage of cheap and plentiful rural labor.
Members of poor peasant families spun or wove cloth and linens at home for scant remuneration in an attempt to supplement meager family income.
Despite all the highly visible technological developments in theatrical and home delivery of the moving image that have occurred over the decades since then, no single innovation has come close to being regarded as a similar kind of watershed.
But the Maya homeland lies more than sixteen hundred kilometers from the equator, at latitudes 17 to 22 degrees north, in a habitat termed a "seasonal tropical forest."
If one focuses on the wet months, one calls the Maya homeland a "seasonal tropical forest"; if one focuses on the dry months, one could instead describe it as a "seasonal desert."
But rainfall in the Maya homeland is unpredictably variable between years; some recent years have had three or four times more rain than other years.
As a result, modern farmers attempting to grow corn in the ancient Maya homelands have faced frequent crop failures, especially in the north.
In addition, there were other immigrants who migrated west in search of new homes, material success, and better lives.
It can also be harnessed to drive electric generators and heat homes.
For people in cliff dwellings, hauling water, wood, and food to their homes was a major chore.
Wood, the primary source of heat for homes and industries and also used in the iron industry as processed charcoal, was diminishing in supply.
At first sight, the plain did not appear to be a likely home for a civilization.
This route to speciation is known as allopatry (  allo-   means   different  , and   patria   means   homeland  ).
With their profits they purchased manufactured goods that earlier they might have made at home.
It served as the primary source of heat for all homes and industries and as a basic raw material.
By 1640 most homes in London were heated with it, and it also provided heat for making beer, glass, soap, and other products.
Where neighbors are in the same position, having filled up the whole of the desirable habitat available in their home territories, expansion is also problematic.
Sir Cyril Clarke has been trapping moths at his home in Liverpool, Merseyside, since 1959.
Another factor is that the United States Forest Service in the first decade of the 1900s adopted the policy of fire suppression (attempting to put out forest fires) for the obvious reason that it did not want valuable timber to go up in smoke, or people  s homes and lives to be threatened.
The individual traveling merchant who alone handled virtually all aspects of exchange evolved into an operation invoh/ing three separate types of merchants: the sedentary merchant who ran the "home office," financing and organizing the firm  s entire export-import trade; the carriers who transported goods by land and sea; and the company agents resident in cities abroad who, on the advice of the home office, looked after sales and procurements.
Great Britain  s better-developed banking and credit system also helped speed the industrial progress, as did the fact that it was the home of an impressive array of entrepreneurs and inventors.
