The necessary space is there, however, in many forms.
Although origin in ritual has long been the most popular, it is by no means the only theory about how the theater came into being.
There are some areas, however, where broadleaf deciduous trees form the timberline.
Other features, however, show experts that Pakicetus is a transitional form between a group of extinct flesh-eating mammals, the mesonychids, and cetaceans.
The structure of the backbone shows, however, that Ambulocetus swam like modern whales by moving the rear portion of its body up and down, even though a fluke was missing.
There is little doubt, however, that desertification in most areas results primarily from human activities rather than natural processes.
The cinema did not emerge as a form of mass consumption until its technology evolved from the initial "peepshow" format to the point where images were projected on a screen in a darkened theater.
In the peepshow format, a film was viewed through a small opening in a machine that was created for that purpose.
Thomas Edison's peepshow device, the Kinetoscope, was introduced to the public in 1894.
Exhibitors, however, wanted to maximize their profits, which they could do more readily by projecting a handful of films to hundreds of customers at a time (rather than one at a time) and by charging 25 to 50 cents admission.
About a year after the opening of the first Kinetoscope parlor in 1894, showmen such as Louis and Auguste Lumiere, Thomas Armat and Charles Francis Jenkins, and Orville and Woodville Latham (with the assistance of Edison's former assistant, William Dickson) perfected projection devices.
These early projection devices were used in vaudeville theaters, legitimate theaters, local town halls, makeshift storefront theaters, fairgrounds, and amusement parks to show films to a mass audience.
Previously, large audiences had viewed spectacles at the theater, where vaudeville, popular dramas, musical and minstrel shows, classical plays, lectures, and slide-and-lantern shows had been presented to several hundred spectators at a time.
But the movies differed significantly from these other forms of entertainment, which depended on either live performance or (in the case of the slide-and-lantern shows) the active involvement of a master of ceremonies who assembled the final program.
With the advent of projection, the viewer's relationship with the image was no longer private, as it had been with earlier peepshow devices such as the Kinetoscope and the Mutoscope, which was a similar machine that reproduced motion by means of successive images on individual photographic cards instead of on strips of celluloid.
At the same time, the image that the spectator looked at expanded from the minuscule peepshow dimensions of 1 or 2 inches (in height) to the life-size proportions of 6 or 9 feet.
Structures can be analyzed in terms of how they deal with downward forces created by gravity.
In the early twentieth century, however, it was discovered that much of the High Plains was underlain by a huge aquifer (a rock layer containing large quantities of groundwater).
Others, however, have adopted the philosophy that it is best to use the water while it is still economically profitable to do so and to concentrate on high-value crops such as cotton.
Even if this process proves successful, however, it would almost triple water costs.
The question of ecosystem stability is complicated, however.
We might expect that early artistic efforts would be crude, but the cave paintings of Spain and southern France show a marked degree of skill.
But if improving their hunting luck was the chief motivation for the paintings, it is difficult to explain why only a few show signs of having been speared.
Consistent with this idea, according to the investigators, is the fact that the art of the cultural period that followed the Upper Paleolithic also seems to reflect how people got their food.
Advancing technology and strict laws, however, are helping control some of these adverse environmental effects. 
Research has shown that certain minerals are required by plants for normal growth and development.
Research has focused on the toxic effects of heavy metals such as lead, cadmium, mercury, and aluminum; however, even copper and zinc, which are essential elements, can become toxic in high concentrations.
Contrary to these theorists, the overwhelming evidence of physical anthropology, linguistics, and archaeology shows that the Pacific islanders came from Southeast Asia and were skilled enough as navigators to sail against the prevailing winds and currents.
This 700-million-year-old formation gives few clues to the origins of modern animals, however, because paleontologists believe it represents an evolutionary experiment that failed.
Fossil formations like the Burgess Shale show that evolution cannot always be thought of as a slow progression.
Watt's steam engine soon showed what it could do.
Ever since people had begun to catalog the strata in particular outcrops, there had been the hope that these could somehow be used to calculate geological time.
It was actually a principle of floral succession as well, because plants showed the same transformation through time as did fauna.
Before this happened, however, the Mediterranean was a vast desert 3,000 meters deep.
Yet it would be wrong to suggest that Rome was somehow a junior partner in Greco-Roman civilization.
Why and how these people spread out into central and southern Africa remains a mystery, but archaeologists believe that their iron weapons allowed them to conquer their hunting-gathering opponents, who still used stone implements.
Moreover, recent research on obsidian tools found at Olmec sites has shown that some of the obsidian obtained by the Olmecs originated near Teotihuac  n. Teotihuac  n obsidian must have been recognized as a valuable commodity for many centuries before the great city arose.
At the end of the Cretaceous, the geological record shows that these seaways retreated from the continents back into the major ocean basins.
Scientists felt that they could get an idea of how long the extinctions took by determining how long it took to deposit this one centimeter of clay and they thought they could determine the time it took to deposit the clay by determining the amount of the element iridium (Ir) it contained.
By measuring how many of these meteorites fall to Earth over a given period of time, scientists can estimate how long it might have taken to deposit the observed amount of Ir in the boundary clay.
Their calculations show that the impact kicked up a dust cloud that cut off sunlight for several months, inhibiting photosynthesis in plants; decreased surface temperatures on continents to below freezing; caused extreme episodes of acid rain; and significantly raised long-term global temperatures through the greenhouse effect.
A 2003 Mars Global Surveyor image shows what mission specialists think may be a delta  a fan-shaped network of channels and sediments where a river once flowed into a larger body of water, in this case a lake filling a crater in the southern highlands.
A computer-generated view of the Martian north polar region shows the extent of what may have been an ancient ocean covering much of the northern lowlands.
Proponents point to features such as the terraced   beaches   shown in one image, which could conceivably have been left behind as a lake or ocean evaporated and the shoreline receded.
The first is support from administrators in an education system, enabling teachers to understand the requirements of reflective practice and how it relates to teaching students.
The teachers in the program described how they found it difficult to put aside the immediate demands of others in order to give themselves the time they needed to develop their reflective skills.
By force of sheer numbers, however, the mosses and ferns reached Hawaii, survived, and multiplied.
We need therefore to know how much the climate can vary of its own accord in order to interpret with confidence the extent to which recent changes are natural as opposed to being the result of human activities.
What we do know is that as we include longer time intervals, the record shows increasing evidence of slow swings in climate between different regimes.
Equally striking, however, is the relative stability of the climate in the past 10,000 years (the Holocene period).
To the extent that the coverage of the global climate from these records can provide a measure of its true variability, it should at least indicate how all the natural causes of climate change have combined.
One way to estimate how all the various processes leading to climate variability will combine is by using computer models of the global climate.
Such villages, however, generally lay in regions of relatively advanced agricultural production, permitting not only the survival of peasants but also the accumulation of an agricultural surplus for investment.
Not until the eighteenth century, however, did such banks as the Bank of Amsterdam and the Bank of England begin to provide capital for business investment.
Frontality is, however, directly related to the functions of Egyptian statuary and the contexts in which the statues were set up.
Thus it made sense to show the statue looking ahead at what was happening in front of it, so that the living performer of the ritual could interact with the divine or deceased recipient.
Unlike formal statues that are limited to static poses of standing, sitting, and kneeling, these figures depict a wide range of actions, such as grinding grain, baking bread, producing pots, and making music, and they are shown in appropriate poses, bending and squatting as they carry out their tasks.
The question is not why they would leave the cold of winter so much as how they find their way around.
Kramer initiated important new kinds of research regarding how animals orient and navigate.
As long as the birds could see the Sun, no matter how their surroundings were altered, they went directly to the correct food box.
Whether the box appeared in front of the right wall or the left wall, they showed no signs of confusion.
On overcast days, however, the birds were disoriented and had trouble locating their food box.
When the real Sun was visible, however, the birds maintained a constant direction as it moved across the sky.
As these experiments show, begging apparently provides a signal of need that parents use to make judgments about which offspring can benefit most from a feeding.
Occasionally one can determine whether stone tools were used in the right hand or the left, and it is even possible to assess how far back this feature can be traced.
In nearly every language, however the words are phrased, the most basic division in cinema history lies between films that are mute and films that speak.
Nearly every movie theater, however modest, had a piano or organ to provide musical accompaniment to silent pictures.
It is known, however, that the distribution of groundwater is uneven, and that much of it lies at great depths.
Normally, the constantly changing levels of an animal's activity  sleeping, feeding, moving, reproducing, metabolizing, and producing enzymes and hormones, for example  are well coordinated with environmental rhythms, but the key question is whether the animal's schedule is driven by external cues, such as sunrise or sunset, or is instead dependent somehow on internal timers that themselves generate the observed biological rhythms.
Such techniques, however, have limitations.
If the infant fails to dishabituate and continues to show habituation with the new stimulus, it is assumed that the baby is unable to perceive the new stimulus as different.
However, research has shown that children often have difficulty understanding disclaimers: children may interpret the phrase "when part of a nutritionally balanced breakfast" to mean that the cereal is required as a necessary part of a balanced breakfast.
Host selling occurs, for example, when a children's show about a cartoon lion contains an ad in which the same lion promotes a breakfast cereal.
The psychologist Dale Kunkel showed that the practice of host selling reduced children's ability to distinguish between advertising and program material.
A study of children in Hong Kong, however, found that the presence of celebrities in advertisements could negatively affect the children's perceptions of a product if the children did not like the celebrity in question.
We do not know how old, or how large, a leatherback has to be before it can switch from a cold-blooded to a warm-blooded mode of life.
The fossil record shows at least five mass extinctions in which many families of marine organisms died out.
A search of sedimentary deposits that span the boundary between the Cretaceous and Tertiary periods shows that there is a dramatic increase in the abundance of iridium briefly and precisely at this boundary.
Two percent may be a deceiving figure, however, since over 80 percent of the world  s freshwater is locked up as ice in glaciers, with the majority of it in Antarctica.
In the meantime, however, this ice is not static.
Records show merchant caravans and trading posts set up by the Sumerians in the surrounding mountains and deserts of Persia and Arabia, where they traded grain for raw materials, such as timber and stones, as well as for metals and gems.
In fact, subsequent work has shown that in a periodic table, elements should not be ordered strictly by atomic mass.
The best signal depends not only on its brightness but also on how well it contrasts with the background against which it must be seen.
The virus was less deadly to the offspring of surviving rabbits, however, and it caused less and less harm over the years.
It is difficult to imagine how this could affect the cattle, but the relationship may help or hinder them in some way not yet recognized.
Considering human capital as a characteristic of the population, however, all four countries were advantaged by the large percentages of their populations who could read and write.
Unfortunately, the few scientific investigations of yawning have failed to find any connection between how often someone yawns and how much sleep they have had or how tired they are.
The data showed that yawning tended to occur about 15 minutes before a period of increased behavioral activity.
Yawning bore no relationship to sleep patterns, however.
Recent measurements made in the field together with laboratory simulations offer a promising explanation of how this structure of charged particles forms.
Sometimes, however, a stream of electrons following an established channel is met by a positive stream making a new path up from the ground.
In American society, however, the class structure was less rigid; some people changed occupations easily and believed it was their duty to improve their social and economic position.
Hundreds of tiny plant remains show how the inhabitants exploited nut harvests in nearby pistachio and oak forests.
Many complex factors led to the adoption of the new economies, not only at Abu Hureyra, but at many other locations such as 'Ain Ghazal, also in Syria, where goat toe bones showing the telltale marks of abrasion caused by foot tethering (binding) testify to early herding of domestic stock.
In many marine creatures, however, the skeleton is composed of a mineral variety of calcium carbonate called aragonite.
This facility was then in its third decade of production and was beginning to show signs of decline, perhaps because of over development.
Furthermore, as the archaeological record shows, the state of health of agriculturalists was worse than that of their contemporary hunter-gatherers.
We know, however, that contemporary hunter-gatherer societies control their population in a variety of ways.
There were, however, fluctuations in the climatic conditions, with the consequences that wet conditions were followed by dry ones, so that the availability of plants and animals oscillated brusquely.
It could be argued, however, that these conditions are not sufficient to explain the origins of agriculture.
However, even children with low verbal skills showed evidence of remembering the event; thus, memories may be facilitated by but are not dependent on those verbal skills.
The development of an understanding of the self becomes evident between the first and second years of life and shows rapid elaboration in subsequent years.
It is interesting to note that some studies show Caucasian American children have earlier childhood memories than Korean children do.
Furthermore, other studies show that Caucasian American mother-child pairs talk about past events three times more often than do Korean mother-child pairs.
And has not twentieth-century art shown that naturalism does not necessarily follow abstraction in some kind of predetermine sequence?
Where does the water in a lake come from, and how does water leave it?
The questions become more complicated when actual volumes of water are considered: how much water enters and leaves by each route?
Not only are there differences in the level of the functioning of respiratory systems, there are even changes in how they function.
The surface of Mars shows a wide range of geologic features, including huge volcanoes-the largest known in the solar system-and extensive impact cratering.
All four show distinctive lava channels and other flow features similar to those found on shield volcanoes on Earth.
By the seventeenth century, however, other European powers had taken over, as the Italian cities lost much of their economic might. 
DNA comparisons have shown that green algae are plants' closest living relatives.
From a plant's evolutionary view point, however, it was also a land of opportunity, free of competitors, and predator arid full of carbon dioxide and sunlight (the raw materials for photosynthesis, which are present in far higher concentrations in air than in water).
Life on land, however, also required new methods of transporting sperm to eggs.
Great Britain had large amounts of coal; however, there were not yet efficient means by which to produce mechanical energy or to power machinery.
Despite these conditions, however, many varieties of plants and animals have adapted to deserts in a number of ways.
The sparse distribution of the feathers, however, also allows considerable lateral air movement over the skin surface, thereby permitting further heat loss by convection.
It contained a number of channels lined by a sequence of holes, about 50 centimeters deep, all showing burn marks and filled with ashes.
Similarly, the late Uruk period shows the first monumental art, relief, and statuary in the round, made with a degree of mastery that only a professional could have produced.
Although this idea was not immediately accepted, the dating of lavas in the Hawaii (and other) chains showed that their ages increase away from the presently active volcano, just as Daly had suggested.
Careful studies have demonstrated, however, that this not the case.
The Canada lynx shows a ten-year cycle of abundance that parallels the abundance cycle of hares.
In the intergranular spaces of rocks, however, fluid must flow around and between grains in a tortuous path; this winding path causes a resistance to flow.The rate at which the flowing water overcomes this resistance is related to the permeability of rock.
When people today are shown a very ordinary Roman pot and, in particular, are allowed to handle it, they often comment on how modern it looks and feels, and they need to be convinced of its true age.
But maps that show the various spots where Roman pottery of a particular type has been found tell only part of the story.
The evolutionary effect of competition on species has been referred to as "species selection;" however, this description is potentially misleading.
Determining the functions of play is difficult because the functions may be long-term, with beneficial effects not showing up until the animal  s adulthood.
At the end of the experiments, the results showed that the actual weight of the brains of the impoverished rats was less than that of those raised in the enriched environment (though they were fed the same diets).
Other studies have shown that greater stimulation not only affects the size of the brain but also increases the number of connections between the nerve cells.
They need to learn how to be dominant and submissive because each monkey might have to play either role in the future.
If it seems difficult to conceive how major changes could occur rapidly, consider this: An alteration of a single gene in flies is enough to turn a normal fly with a single pair of wings into one that has two pairs of wings.
From the start, however, the towns and cities took equal hours as their standard, and the public clocks installed in town halls and market squares became the very symbol of a new, secular municipal authority.
In other groups, however, genetic divergences had not proceeded so far, and the descendants could still interbreed   for them, reproductive isolation was not completed, and so speciation had not occurred. 
Although graduates of Head Start programs tend to show immediate IQ gains, these increases do lot last.
Finally, some research suggests that ultimately Head Start graduates show higher academic performance at the end of high school, although the gains are modest. 
For instance, compared with children who did not participate in early intervention programs, participants in various programs showed gains in emotional or cognitive development, better educational outcomes, increased economic self-sufficiency, reduced level of criminal activity, and improved health-related behaviors.
In 1977 ecologists Stephen Hubbell and Leslie Johnson recorded a dramatic example of how social interactions can produce and enforce regular spacing in a population.
They predicted that the colonies of aggressive species would show regular distributions, while those of nonaggressive species would show random or closely grouped (clumped) distribution.
Though Hubbell and Johnson were interested in how bee behavior might affect colony distributions, they recognized that the availability of potential nest sites for colonies could also affect distributions.
What did these measurements show the researchers?
The pheromone secreted by these stingless bees attracts and aggregates members of their colony to the prospective nest site; however, it also attracts workers from other nests.
As time went on, such communities gradually learned how to direct the flow of water to enhance the productive capacity of the land, while the introduction of the iron plow eventually led to the cultivation of heavy soils not previously susceptible to agriculture.
In 1837, however, John Deere patented a sharp-cutting steel plow that sliced through the sod without soil sticking to the blade.
Coal was not used, however, to produce mechanical energy or to power machinery.
One example shows how ants attracted to extrafloral nectaries protect morning glories against attacking insects.
More recent data, however, provide additional support for Kettleweir  s ideas about natural selection.
A scientific theory about the universe, however demands much more than the various observations and analogies that were woven together to form systems of reasoning, carefully constructed as they were, that would eventually culminate in Aristotle  s model of the world and the universe.
A successful translocation exercise also appears to have been achieved with red howler monkeys in French Guiana.
A howler population was translocated from a site due to be flooded for hydroelectric power generation.
The release site was an area where local hunting had reduced the density of the resident howler population.
Such buildings, however, were viewed in a category separate from   fine   architecture, and in fact were often designed by engineers and builders rather than architects.
Resolving power is the ability of an optical instrument to show two objects as separate.
The light microscope cannot resolve detail finer than 0.2 micrometers, about the size of the smallest bacterium; consequently, no matter how many times its image of such a bacterium is magnified, the light microscope cannot show the details of the cell  s internal structure.
The expansion of agriculture, however, does not necessarily lead to rapid increases in their abundance.
Fortunately, however, many tablets survived because they were accidentally fired when the buildings they were stored in burned. 
In the next century, however, it was the mature assembly that took on decision-making responsibility.
Recently it has been shown that some North American frog and toad speeds can survive up to five days with a body temperature of -6*0 with approximately one-third of their body fluids frozen.
Weaving is a paradigm of the creativity of a mythic ancestor named Spider Woman who wove the universe as a cosmic web that united earth and sky It was she who, according to legend, taught Navajo women how to weave.
Studies of how stars evolve suggest that the early Sun was only about 70 percent as luminous as it is now, so the temperature in Venus   early atmosphere must have been quite a bit lower.
The Galapagos island chain is one of the world's greatest showcases of evolution.
Sampling on the continental shelves and along the base of the continental slopes has shown that fine muds beneath the seafloor contain up to 8 percent organic matter.
Knowing how much oil has been found in an intensively drilled area, such as eastern Texas, experts make estimates of probable volumes in other regions where rock types and structures are similar to those in eastern Texas.
The room shown in it closely resembles the room in other Vermeer paintings, with lighting coming from a window on the left, the same roof beams, and similar floor tiles, suggesting that the room was fitted with a camera obscura on the side in the foreground.
For any given seagrass system, however, the water motion is relatively constant.
Although marine botanist W. A. Setchell suggested early on that temperature was critical to the growth and reproduction of eelgrass, it has since been shown that this particularly widespread seagrass grows and reproduces at temperatures between 2 and 4 degrees Celsius in the Arctic and at temperatures up to 28 degrees Celsius on the northeastern coast of the United States.
The commercial changes of the eleventh through fourteenth centuries did however, lay the economic foundation for the development of urban life and culture.
One of the first studies to provide data supporting a relationship between diversity and stability examined how grassland plants responded to a drought.
The Minnesota grassland research has been widely accepted as strong evidence for the diversity- stability theory; however, its findings have been questioned, and similar studies on other ecosystems have not always found a positive relationship between diversity and stability.
Although exceptional, this demonstrates how new cultural symbols bound provincials to the identify of the Roman world. 
Its detail shows that it was carved by artists from northeast Gaul.
Local workshops did develop and stylistically similar groups of sculpture show how skills in this new medium became widerspread.
But how is this well-insulated nest ventilated?
Because the flat teeth of herbivores work like grindstones, however, the jaws mush move both side to side and front to back.
However, before we look at its influence, let  s see how the heat island actually forms.
Raised beaches are remnants of former coastlines at higher levels relative to the present shoreline and visible, for instance, along the Californian coast north of San Francisco, the height of a raised beach above the present shoreline, however, does not generally give a straightforward indication of the height of a former sea level.
Both exports and imports showed spectacular growth, particularly in England and France.
