The necessary space is there, however, in many forms.
There are some areas, however, where broadleaf deciduous trees form the timberline.
Other features, however, show experts that Pakicetus is a transitional form between a group of extinct flesh-eating mammals, the mesonychids, and cetaceans.
The structure of the backbone shows, however, that Ambulocetus swam like modern whales by moving the rear portion of its body up and down, even though a fluke was missing.
There is little doubt, however, that desertification in most areas results primarily from human activities rather than natural processes.
Exhibitors, however, wanted to maximize their profits, which they could do more readily by projecting a handful of films to hundreds of customers at a time (rather than one at a time) and by charging 25 to 50 cents admission.
In the early twentieth century, however, it was discovered that much of the High Plains was underlain by a huge aquifer (a rock layer containing large quantities of groundwater).
Others, however, have adopted the philosophy that it is best to use the water while it is still economically profitable to do so and to concentrate on high-value crops such as cotton.
Even if this process proves successful, however, it would almost triple water costs.
The question of ecosystem stability is complicated, however.
Advancing technology and strict laws, however, are helping control some of these adverse environmental effects. 
Research has focused on the toxic effects of heavy metals such as lead, cadmium, mercury, and aluminum; however, even copper and zinc, which are essential elements, can become toxic in high concentrations.
This 700-million-year-old formation gives few clues to the origins of modern animals, however, because paleontologists believe it represents an evolutionary experiment that failed.
Before this happened, however, the Mediterranean was a vast desert 3,000 meters deep.
By force of sheer numbers, however, the mosses and ferns reached Hawaii, survived, and multiplied.
Equally striking, however, is the relative stability of the climate in the past 10,000 years (the Holocene period).
Such villages, however, generally lay in regions of relatively advanced agricultural production, permitting not only the survival of peasants but also the accumulation of an agricultural surplus for investment.
Not until the eighteenth century, however, did such banks as the Bank of Amsterdam and the Bank of England begin to provide capital for business investment.
Frontality is, however, directly related to the functions of Egyptian statuary and the contexts in which the statues were set up.
On overcast days, however, the birds were disoriented and had trouble locating their food box.
When the real Sun was visible, however, the birds maintained a constant direction as it moved across the sky.
In nearly every language, however the words are phrased, the most basic division in cinema history lies between films that are mute and films that speak.
Nearly every movie theater, however modest, had a piano or organ to provide musical accompaniment to silent pictures.
It is known, however, that the distribution of groundwater is uneven, and that much of it lies at great depths.
Such techniques, however, have limitations.
A study of children in Hong Kong, however, found that the presence of celebrities in advertisements could negatively affect the children's perceptions of a product if the children did not like the celebrity in question.
Two percent may be a deceiving figure, however, since over 80 percent of the world  s freshwater is locked up as ice in glaciers, with the majority of it in Antarctica.
In the meantime, however, this ice is not static.
The virus was less deadly to the offspring of surviving rabbits, however, and it caused less and less harm over the years.
Considering human capital as a characteristic of the population, however, all four countries were advantaged by the large percentages of their populations who could read and write.
Yawning bore no relationship to sleep patterns, however.
Sometimes, however, a stream of electrons following an established channel is met by a positive stream making a new path up from the ground.
In American society, however, the class structure was less rigid; some people changed occupations easily and believed it was their duty to improve their social and economic position.
In many marine creatures, however, the skeleton is composed of a mineral variety of calcium carbonate called aragonite.
We know, however, that contemporary hunter-gatherer societies control their population in a variety of ways.
There were, however, fluctuations in the climatic conditions, with the consequences that wet conditions were followed by dry ones, so that the availability of plants and animals oscillated brusquely.
It could be argued, however, that these conditions are not sufficient to explain the origins of agriculture.
By the seventeenth century, however, other European powers had taken over, as the Italian cities lost much of their economic might. 
From a plant's evolutionary view point, however, it was also a land of opportunity, free of competitors, and predator arid full of carbon dioxide and sunlight (the raw materials for photosynthesis, which are present in far higher concentrations in air than in water).
Life on land, however, also required new methods of transporting sperm to eggs.
Great Britain had large amounts of coal; however, there were not yet efficient means by which to produce mechanical energy or to power machinery.
Despite these conditions, however, many varieties of plants and animals have adapted to deserts in a number of ways.
The sparse distribution of the feathers, however, also allows considerable lateral air movement over the skin surface, thereby permitting further heat loss by convection.
Careful studies have demonstrated, however, that this not the case.
In the intergranular spaces of rocks, however, fluid must flow around and between grains in a tortuous path; this winding path causes a resistance to flow.The rate at which the flowing water overcomes this resistance is related to the permeability of rock.
The evolutionary effect of competition on species has been referred to as "species selection;" however, this description is potentially misleading.
From the start, however, the towns and cities took equal hours as their standard, and the public clocks installed in town halls and market squares became the very symbol of a new, secular municipal authority.
In other groups, however, genetic divergences had not proceeded so far, and the descendants could still interbreed   for them, reproductive isolation was not completed, and so speciation had not occurred. 
The pheromone secreted by these stingless bees attracts and aggregates members of their colony to the prospective nest site; however, it also attracts workers from other nests.
In 1837, however, John Deere patented a sharp-cutting steel plow that sliced through the sod without soil sticking to the blade.
Coal was not used, however, to produce mechanical energy or to power machinery.
More recent data, however, provide additional support for Kettleweir  s ideas about natural selection.
A scientific theory about the universe, however demands much more than the various observations and analogies that were woven together to form systems of reasoning, carefully constructed as they were, that would eventually culminate in Aristotle  s model of the world and the universe.
Such buildings, however, were viewed in a category separate from   fine   architecture, and in fact were often designed by engineers and builders rather than architects.
The expansion of agriculture, however, does not necessarily lead to rapid increases in their abundance.
Fortunately, however, many tablets survived because they were accidentally fired when the buildings they were stored in burned. 
In the next century, however, it was the mature assembly that took on decision-making responsibility.
For any given seagrass system, however, the water motion is relatively constant.
The commercial changes of the eleventh through fourteenth centuries did however, lay the economic foundation for the development of urban life and culture.
The Minnesota grassland research has been widely accepted as strong evidence for the diversity- stability theory; however, its findings have been questioned, and similar studies on other ecosystems have not always found a positive relationship between diversity and stability.
Because the flat teeth of herbivores work like grindstones, however, the jaws mush move both side to side and front to back.
Raised beaches are remnants of former coastlines at higher levels relative to the present shoreline and visible, for instance, along the Californian coast north of San Francisco, the height of a raised beach above the present shoreline, however, does not generally give a straightforward indication of the height of a former sea level.
