Support for this idea came from the observation that long-lasting climax communities usually have more complex food webs and more species diversity than pioneer communities.
Great tracts of lowland country deforested by logging, fire, or both have become ideal feeding grounds of deer.
Thus, the paintings are consistent with the idea that the art is related to the importance of hunting in the economy of Upper Paleolithic people.
Consistent with this idea, according to the investigators, is the fact that the art of the cultural period that followed the Upper Paleolithic also seems to reflect how people got their food.
It has been suggested that these figurines were an ideal type or an expression of a desire for fertility. 
Once the idea of planting diffused, Africans began to develop their own crops, such as certain varieties of rice, and they demonstrated a continued receptiveness to new imports.
Scientists felt that they could get an idea of how long the extinctions took by determining how long it took to deposit this one centimeter of clay and they thought they could determine the time it took to deposit the clay by determining the amount of the element iridium (Ir) it contained.
These ideas remain controversial.
Wildman and Niles make a summary comment:   Perhaps the most important thing we learned is the idea of the teacher-as-reflective-practitioner will not happen simply because it is a good or even compelling idea.   
Zeichner and Liston (1987) point out the inconsistency between the role of the teacher as a (reflective) professional decision maker and the more usual role of the teacher as a technician, putting into practice the ideas of theirs.
To test this idea, he blocked their view of the Sun and used mirrors to change its apparent position.
At the time, this idea seemed preposterous.
To test the idea, caged night-migrating birds were placed on the floor of a planetarium during their migratory period.
Such programs are much needed because in many arid lands there is only a vague idea of the extent of groundwater resources.
Seeing and talking with one another in close physical proximity makes possible a subtle exchange of ideas and feelings.
Almost universally, biologists accept the idea that all eukaryotes (a category that includes most organisms except bacteria and certain algae) have internal clocks.
Children have strong imaginations and the use of fantasy brings their ideas to life, but children may not be adept enough to realize that what they are viewing is unreal.
Widely reported, if somewhat distrusted, accounts by figures like the famous traveler from Venice, Marco Polo, of the willingness of people in China to trade with Europeans and of the immensity of the wealth to be gained by such contact made the idea irresistible.
This idea was modified in the late twentieth century, when geologists and oceanographers examining oceanic sediment found fossil evidence of warming and cooling of the oceans.
The idea of a world population crisis is therefore unlikely, although population pressure might have arisen in some areas.
Perhaps the explanation goes back to some ideas raised by influential Swiss psychologist Jean Piaget  namely, that children under age two years represent events in a qualitatively different form than older children do.
One of the things that most impressed the original audience for photography was the idea of authenticity.
Some scholars expand on this idea by emphasizing a corresponding need for arable land to feed growing numbers of people: construction of small dams, reservoirs, terraces, and field houses indicates  that  farmers  were  intensifying  their  efforts  during  the  1200s. 
Although this idea was not immediately accepted, the dating of lavas in the Hawaii (and other) chains showed that their ages increase away from the presently active volcano, just as Daly had suggested.
The smooth bark of small red maples makes this species ideal for buck rubs in the forests of the mid-eastern United States. 
When considering quantities, we would ideally like to have some estimates for overall production from particular sites of pottery manufacture and for overall consumption at specific settlements.
Nevertheless, climatic explanations for the K-T extinction are not really challenged by the ideas that dinosaurs may have been endothermic, because even endotherms can be affected by a significant change in the climate.
This in turn allowed the easy transfer of artistic ideas and motifs over great distances, from one medium to another, and in a different scale in ways that had been difficult, if not impossible, in the previous period. 
Forbes  s azoic zone was entirely plausible at the time, and it was certainly far from the strangest idea that was then entertained about the deep sea.
The idea of natural selection is that organisms in a species that have characteristics favoring survival are most likely to survive and produce offspring with the same characteristics.
The idea that natural selection was responsible for the changing ratio of dark- to light-colored peppered moths was developed in the 1950s by H. B. D. Kettlewell of Oxford University.
More recent data, however, provide additional support for Kettleweir  s ideas about natural selection.
Although he did not accept that water was the prime element, he did believe that all life originated in the sea, and he was thus one of the first to conceive of this important idea.
Anaximander, observing the motions of the heavens around the polestar, was probably the first of the Greek philosophers to picture the sky as sphere completely surrounding Earth--an idea that, elaborated upon later, would prevail until the advent of the Scientific Revolution in the seventeenth century. 
Little is known about his other ideas.
It is possible for anyone to create   ideas   about the nature and structure of the universe, for instance, and many times these ideas can be so consistent and elaborately structured, or just so apparently obvious, that they can be persuasive to many people.
In an ideal world, the Forest Service would manage and restore the forests, thin them out, and remove the dense understory by cutting or by controlled small fires.
However, the idea that amphibians have no control whatsoever over their body temperature has been proven false because their body temperature does not always correspond to the surrounding temperature.
The purpose and meaning of the sand paintings can be explained by examining one of the most basic ideals of Navajo society, embodied in their word hozho (beauty or harmony, goodness, and happiness).
The paintings generally illustrate ideas and events from the life of a mythical hero, who, after being healed by the gods, gave gifts of songs and paintings.
felt that the ideal city-state should have about 5,000 citizens, because to the Greeks it was important that everyone in the community should know each other.
This implied that the city-state was based on the idea that citizens were not specialists but had multiple interests and talents    each a so-called jack-of-all-trades who could engage in many areas of life and politics.
Even before Alexander  s time, a life spent in the service of their city-state no longer seemed ideal to Greeks The Athenian philosopher Socrates (470-399 B.C.)
Scientific evidence to illuminate these ideas has been slow in coming, and many shadows remain.
After the Roman Empire  s conquest of Britain in the first century A.D., the presence of administrators, merchants, and troops on British soil, along with the natural flow of ideas and goods from the rest of the empire, had an enormous influence on life in the British Isles.
As Gutenberg, apart from getting the key idea, had to solve a lot of practical problems, including imposing paper and ink into the process and the actual printing itself, for which he adapted the screw press used by winemakers, it is amazing that his first product does not look at all rudimentary.
