Wind velocity also increases with altitude and may cause serious stress for trees, as is made evident by the deformed shapes at high altitudes.
Water absorption is greatly reduced; consequently runoff is increased, resulting in accelerated erosion rates.
In some regions, the increase in desert areas is occurring largely as the result of a trend toward drier climatic conditions.
Continued gradual global warming has produced an increase in aridity for some areas over the past few thousand years.
The process may be accelerated in subsequent decades if global warming resulting from air pollution seriously increases. 
The semiarid lands bordering the deserts exist in a delicate ecological balance and are limited in their potential to adjust to increased environmental pressures.
The increased pressures of expanding populations have led to the removal of woody plants so that many cities and towns are surrounded by large areas completely lacking in trees and shrubs.
Unfortunately, the cost of water obtained through any of these schemes would increase pumping costs at least tenfold, making the cost of irrigated agricultural products from the region uncompetitive on the national and international markets.
In addition to finding an increase of suitable browse, like huckleberry and vine maple, Arthur Einarsen, longtime game biologist in the Pacific Northwest, found quality of browse in the open areas to be substantially more nutritive.
Perhaps the paintings were inspired by the need to increase the supply of animals.
Until the reign of George   (1760-1820), available sources of power for work and travel had not increased since the Middle Ages.
Their migration may have been set in motion by an increase in population caused by a movement of peoples fleeing the desiccation, or drying up, of the Sahara.
All this led to increased wealth, which in turn would attract more immigrants to Teotihuac  n. The growing power of the elite, who controlled the economy, would give them the means to physically coerce people to move to Teotihuac  n and serve as additions to the labor force.
Among the key factors behind this growth were increased agricultural productivity and an expansion of trade.
Moreover an increased credit supply was generated by investments and loans by bankers and wealthy merchants to states and by joint-stock partnerships  an English innovation (the first major company began in 1600).
The answer lies apparently not in the increased energy costs of exaggerated begging  such energy costs are small relative to the potential gain in calories  but rather in the damage that any successful cheater would do to its siblings, which share genes with one another.
The mineral content of groundwater normally increases with the depth, but even quite shallow aquifers can be highly saline.
And third, the probability that we will develop primary group bonds increases as we have frequent and continuous contact.
Numerical increases are used as quantifiable indicators of heightened interest in the new stimulus.
The likely explanation is that an area of underground freshwater underlies the Yucatan Peninsula, but surface elevation increases from north to south, so that as one moves south the land surface lies increasingly higher above the water table.
American paleontologists David Raup and John Sepkoski, who have studied extinction rates in a number of fossil groups, suggest that episodes of increased extinction have recurred periodically, approximately every 26 million years since the mid-Cretaceous period.
A search of sedimentary deposits that span the boundary between the Cretaceous and Tertiary periods shows that there is a dramatic increase in the abundance of iridium briefly and precisely at this boundary.
With further melting, refreezing, and increased weight from newer snowfall above, the snow reaches a granular recrystallized stage intermediate between flakes and ice known as firn.
It had a wider and deeper hull than the galley and hence could carry more cargo: increased stability made it possible to add multiple masts and sails.
This, along with other policy shifts toward free trade, resulted in a significant increase in traffic through the Sound and in the port of Copenhagen.
When researchers measured the heart rate, muscle tension and skin conductance of people before, during and after yawning, they did detect some changes in skin conductance following yawning, indicating a slight increase in physiological activity.
The data showed that yawning tended to occur about 15 minutes before a period of increased behavioral activity.
During periods when commodity prices were high, the rate of westward migration increased spectacularly.
Two other developments presaged the end of the era of turnpikes and started a transportation revolution that resulted in increased regional specialization and the growth of a national market economy.
The temperature increased dramatically in a short period of time (years rather than centuries), allowing for a growth of the hunting-gathering population due to the abundance of resources.
It would appear that the instability of the climatic conditions led populations that had originally been nomadic to settle down and develop a sedentary style of life, which led in turn to population growth and to the need to increase the amount of food available.
As elevation increases, narrow, deep channels of water form throughout the marsh.
The burning of fuel, such as by cars, is not the only source of this increased heat.
Wind movements are also modified in cities because buildings increase the friction on air flowing around them.
On the other hand, air turbulence increases because of the effect of skyscrapers on airflow.
Rainfall is also increased in cities.
As the demand for agricultural produce from both consumers and industry increased, agricultural land became more valuable and people tried to work the available land more intensively and to reclaim more land from wetlands and lakes.
In order to increase production on existing land, the peasants made more use of crop rotation and, in particular, began to apply animal waste to the soil regularly, rather than leaving the fertilization process up to the grazing livestock.
The increased yield and price of land justified reclaiming and draining even more land.
The result has been that the residence time of one of the lakes increased from 5 to 18 years during the study period.
Second, once sleep is fully obtained, there is an increase of carbon dioxide and a decrease of oxygen in the blood that persists during NREM.
If something blocks the "good" side, such as congestion from allergies or a cold, then resistance increases dramatically.
For example, during wakefulness   there is an immediate, automatic, adaptive increase in breathing effort when inhaling is made more difficult (such as breathing through a restrictive face mask).
As densities increased, domestic architecture became larger, culminating in crowded pueblos.
Even though sailors' wages doubled among the northern Italian cities from 1550 to 1590, this did not elicit an increased supply.
Prices of spices delivered by ship from the eastern Mediterranean came to equal those of spices transported by Paortuguese vessels, but the increase in quantity with both routes in operation drove the price far down.
The engine helped solve the problem of draining coal mines of groundwater and increased the production of coal needed to power steam engines elsewhere.
The shift to increased mechanization in cotton production is apparent in the import of raw cotton and the sale of cotton goods.
Between 1760 and 1850, the amount of raw cotton imported increased 230 times.
Production of British cotton goods increased sixtyfold, and cotton cloth became Great Britain  s most important product, accounting for one-half of all exports.
The success of the steam engine resulted in increased demands for coal, and the consequent increase in coal production was made possible as the steam-powered pumps drained water from the ever-deeper coal seams found below the water table.
Furthermore, the birds orient themselves carefully with regard to the Sun and gently flap their wings to increase convection cooling.
A large part of that increase took place in Uruk itself, which became a real urban center surrounded by a set of secondary settlements.
Although this idea was not immediately accepted, the dating of lavas in the Hawaii (and other) chains showed that their ages increase away from the presently active volcano, just as Daly had suggested.
As hare density increases, the quantity of these twigs decreases, forcing the hares to feed on low-quality, high-fiber food.
When food was added to these plots (no food effect) and predators were excluded (no predator effect) from an experimental area, hare numbers increased tenfold and stayed there  the cycle was lost.
On the other hand, rainfall increased in the interior of western Africa, and the northern limit of the tsetse fly, an insect fatal to cattle, moved south.
The problem is that competition ordinarily cannot be observed directly but must be inferred from the spread or increase of one species and the concurrent reduction or disappearance of another species.
Greater activity also increases the risk of injury in slipping or falling.
Other studies have shown that greater stimulation not only affects the size of the brain but also increases the number of connections between the nerve cells.
In that study, each of eight different trilobite species was observed to undergo a gradual change in the number of segments    typically an increase of one or two segments over the whole time interval.
If, for instance, the program is expected to provide long-term increases in IQ(intelligence quotient) scores, it is a disappointment.
Although graduates of Head Start programs tend to show immediate IQ gains, these increases do lot last.
For instance, compared with children who did not participate in early intervention programs, participants in various programs showed gains in emotional or cognitive development, better educational outcomes, increased economic self-sufficiency, reduced level of criminal activity, and improved health-related behaviors.
Evidence from other studies suggests that exclusion of fire results in markedly decreased plant-species richness, often with an increase in tree density.
This was probably a large increase over the figure even two or three decades earlier, during the late 1800s.
During the same period, the area planted in rice increased from about 230,000 acres to more than 350,000 acres.
The increase in food production in these regions led to a significant growth in population, while efforts to control the flow of water to maximize the irrigation of cultivated areas and to protect the local inhabitants from hostile forces outside the community provoked the first steps toward cooperative activities on a large scale.
With the increase in population and the development of centralized authority came the emergence of the cities.
Thus while the value of goods shipped by river to New Orleans continued to increase, the South  s overall share of western trade dropped dramatically.
Farmers responded by specializing in cash crops, borrowing to purchase more land, and investing in equipment to increase productivity.
The number of flowering plants (angiosperms) was reduced at this time, but they then began to increase dramatically.
The increased availability of paper, particularly after 1250, encouraged people to develop systems of representation, such as architectural plans and drawings.
This splendid invention, patented in 1769, greatly increased the efficiency of the steam engine.
In 1740 annual British iron production was only 17,000 tons, but by 1844, with the spread of coke smelting and the impact of Cort  s inventions, it had increased to 3,000,000 tons.
Archaeologist Donald Henry suggests that the combination of a rich habitat and sedentism (permanent, year-round settlement) led to a dramatic increase in human population.
A more sedentary existence may also have lowered infant mortality and perhaps increased longevity among the aged.
Hierarchies that did not exist in earlier foraging groups but that were helpful in structuring cooperative labor and in organizing more-complex technologies probably became established, even before domestication and agriculture, as pre-Neolithic societies (before the tenth millennium B C E) reacted to the population increase.
The increased erosion that often accompanies agricultural use of sloping land is principally caused by the removal of its protective cover of natural vegetation.
Coal from industry released large amounts of black soot into the environment, but the increase of the dark-colored forms was not due to genetic mutations caused by industrial pollution.
This phenomenon, an increase in the frequency of dark-colored mutants in polluted areas, is known as industrial melanism.
The number of translocations carried out under the banner of conservation has increased rapidly, and this has led to criticism of the technique because of the lack of evaluation of its efficacy and because of its potential disadvantages.
In a fragmented landscape where many populations and habitats are isolated from others, translocations can play an effective role in conservation strategies; they can increase the number of existing populations or increase the size, genetic diversity, and demographic balance of a small population, consequently increasing its chances of survival. 
Careful habitat management increased this number to over 300 birds, but the single population remained vulnerable to local catastrophic events.
From the standpoint of real estate developers, the purpose of skyscrapers was to increase rental space in valuable urban locations.
Magnification, the increase in the apparent size of an object, is one important factor in microscopy.
Several factors explain the raccoon's dramatic increase in abundance and distribution.
The expansion of agriculture, however, does not necessarily lead to rapid increases in their abundance.
The extermination of the wolf from most of the contiguous United States may have been a critical factor in the raccoon's expansion and numerical increase.
The density of Maori settlements and artifacts increased substantially at the time of the most intensive moa hunting (900 to 600 years ago).
Forest fires have recently increased in intensity and extent in some forest types throughout the western United States.
This recent increase in fires has resulted partly from climate change (the recent trend toward hot, dry summers) and partly from human activities, for complicated reasons that foresters came increasingly to understand about 30 years ago but whose relative importance is still debated.
Tree densities increased from 30 to 200 trees per acre, the forest  s fuel load increased by a factor of 6, and the government repeatedly failed to appropriate money to thin out the saplings.
Foresters now identify the biggest problem in managing Western forests as what to do with those increased fuel loads that built up during the previous half century of effective fire suppression.
Hefiothermy is especially common among frogs and toads: it allows them to increase their body temperature by more than 10*C. The Andean toad Bufo spinulosus exposes itself immediately after sunrise on moist ground and attains its preferred body temperature by this means, long before either ground or air is correspondingly warmed.
But as the Sun  s energy output slowly increased over time, the temperature at the surface would eventually have risen above 374  C. Above this temperature, no matter what the atmospheric pressure, Venus   oceans would have begun to evaporate, and the added water vapor in the atmosphere would have increased the greenhouse effect.
The likelihood of allopatric speciation increases when a population is small as well as isolated, making it more likely than a large population to have its gene pool changed substantially.
From an artist  s point of view, Hockney observed that a camera obscura compresses the complicated forms of a three-dimensional scene into two-dimensional shapes that can easily be traced and also increases the contrast between light and dark, leading to the chiaroscuro effect seen in many of these paintings.
This has resulted in a more stealthy style of feeding, with the consequent emphasis on lures and/or the evolution of elongated appendages that increase the active volume of water controlled or monitored by the animal.
In such creatures, not only are the teeth hugely enlarged and/or the jaws elongated but the size of the mouth opening may be greatly increased by making the jaw articulations so flexible that they can be effectively dislocated.
The widespread use of cash greatly increased the volume of international trade.
Three mechanisms by which higher diversity increases ecosystem stability have been proposed.
At present they are coming under a variety of threats, of which two of the most important are dredging and the effects of increased siltation brought about by accelerated erosion from neighboring land areas.
Increases in population have usually been accompanied (indeed facilitated) by an increase in trade.
However, the massive increase in population that in Europe was at first attributed to industrialization starting in the eighteenth century occurred also and at the same period in China, even though there was no comparable industrialization.
To explain this sudden increase we cannot point to factors constant in Chinese society but must find conditions or a combination of factors that were newly effective in this period.
There was also an increase in foreign trade through Guangzhou (southern China) and some improvement of transportation within the empire.
Assuming that China  s population in 1400 was about 80 million, the economist Dwight Perkins concludes that its growth to 700 million or more in the 1960s was made possible by a steady increase in the grain supply, which evidently grew five or six times between 1400 and 1800 and rose another 50 percent between 1800 and 1965.
This increase of food supply was due perhaps half to the increase of cultivated area, particularly by migration and settlement in the central and western provinces, and half to greater productivity  the farmers   success in raising more crops per unit of land.
From 1400 to 1900 the total of irrigated land seems to have increased almost three times.
There was also a gain in farm tools, draft animals, and fertilizer, to say nothing of the population growth itself, which increased half again as fast as cultivated land area and so increased the ratio of human hands available per unit of land.
Moreover, the added nuclei increase the frequency of city fog.
Studies suggest that precipitation may be greater in cities than in the surrounding countryside; this phenomenon may be due in part to the increased roughness of city terrain, brought on by large structures that cause surface air to slow and gradually converge.
Because water transportation was the cheapest means of carrying goods to market, canals reduced prices and thus increased consumer demand.
Much of the increased production was consumed by Great Britain  s burgeoning population.
