During the early stages of its development, a society becomes aware of forces that appear to influence or control its food supply and well-being.
Frequently the myths include representatives of those supernatural forces that the rites celebrate or hope to influence.
A second explanation involves the influence of the social world on children  s language use.
Light has a predominating influence in setting the clock.
It means that pastoralist societies occupy and can influence very large territories.
It may be that the developments just described are intertwined with and influence one another.
Sediment sorting and compaction influence permeability and porosity.
There is also evidence to suggest that grazers (animals that feed on plants or stationary animals), particularly selective grazers, can influence the phytoplankton species composition.
The types of organisms growing or living in the soil greatly influence the soil  s physical and chemical characteristics.
In fact, for mature soils in many parts of the world, the predominant type of natural vegetation is considered the most important direct influence on soil characteristics.
Animals also influence soil composition.
Like most of the great Greek philosophers, Thales had an influence on others around him.
Productivity seems to be involved instead, though perhaps its influence is indirect.
Structure has a strong influence on the animal life inhabiting a site, it forms the spatial environment within which an animal feeds, moves around, shelters, Ives, and breeds.
Seagrass beds under the influence of strong currents tend to have many of the lighter particles, including seagrass debris, moved out, whereas beds in weak current areas accumulate lighter detrital material.
They exercised an influence far in excess of their numbers.
After the Roman Empire  s conquest of Britain in the first century A.D., the presence of administrators, merchants, and troops on British soil, along with the natural flow of ideas and goods from the rest of the empire, had an enormous influence on life in the British Isles.
This region of city warmth, known as the urban heat island, can influence the concentration of air pollution.
However, before we look at its influence, let  s see how the heat island actually forms.
The constant outpouring of pollutants into the environment may influence the climate of the city.
