Hearing and telling stories about events may help children store information in ways that will endure into later childhood and adulthood.
A third likely explanation for infantile amnesia involves incompatibilities between the ways in which infants encode information and the ways in which older children and adults retrieve it.
Whether people can remember an event depends critically on the fit between the way in which they earlier encoded the information and the way in which they later attempt to retrieve it.
Older children and adults often try to retrieve the names of things they saw, but infants would not have encoded the information verbally.
They can do only so much to represent the full complexity of the global climate and hence may give only limited information about natural variability.
Consumer protection groups and parents believe that children are largely ill-equipped to recognize such techniques and that often exaggeration is used at the expense of product information.
Researcher Charles Atkin found that children believe that the characters used to advertise breakfast cereals are knowledgeable about cereals, and children accept such characters as credible sources of nutritional information.
Once all this information has been gathered, it becomes possible to judge whether a lake  s flow is mainly due to its surface inputs and outputs or to its underground inputs and outputs.
The detailed appearance of Martian impact craters provides an important piece of information about conditions just below the planet's surface.
Forehead rubbing by male deer on buck rubs presumably sends a great deal of information to other members of the same species.
First, the chemicals deposited on the rub provide information on the individual identity of an animal; no two mammals produce the same scent.
The information conveyed by the olfactory signals on a buck rub make it the social equivalent of some auditory signals in other deer species, such as trumpeting by bull elk.
From 1996 to 1999, the Galileo spacecraft passed through the Jovian system, providing much information about Jupiter's satellites.
Traditionally, this information has been derived from direct evidence, such as stomach contents, and indirect evidence, such as establishing a correlation between particular body characteristics and diets of living animals and then inferring habits for dinosaurs. 
