He refused to develop projection technology, reasoning that if he made and sold projectors, then exhibitors would purchase only one machine-a projector-from him instead of several.
With the advent of projection, the viewer's relationship with the image was no longer private, as it had been with earlier peepshow devices such as the Kinetoscope and the Mutoscope, which was a similar machine that reproduced motion by means of successive images on individual photographic cards instead of on strips of celluloid.
Occasionally, this may mean working with instead of against competitors.
Normally, the constantly changing levels of an animal's activity  sleeping, feeding, moving, reproducing, metabolizing, and producing enzymes and hormones, for example  are well coordinated with environmental rhythms, but the key question is whether the animal's schedule is driven by external cues, such as sunrise or sunset, or is instead dependent somehow on internal timers that themselves generate the observed biological rhythms.
If one focuses on the wet months, one calls the Maya homeland a "seasonal tropical forest"; if one focuses on the dry months, one could instead describe it as a "seasonal desert."
It initially surprises us that many of their cities were not built next to the rivers but instead on high terrain in rolling uplands.
Nor have merchants and artisans ever had much tolerance for aristocratic professions of moral superiority, favoring instead an egalitarian ethic of the open market, where steady hard work, the loyalty of one's fellows, and entrepreneurial skill make all the difference.
The inhabitants turned to wild cereal grasses instead, collecting them by the thousands, while the percentage of nuts in the diet fell.
Areas near traffic lights can be similarly warmer than the areas between them because of the effect of cars standing in traffic instead of moving.
Because the surface of the water table is not flat but instead rises and falls with topography, groundwater is affected by gravity in the same fashion as surface water.
Peasants now paid a tax on individuals instead of being required to render labor service to the government.
Village handicrafts diminished or died out completely as people bought imported consumer goods, like cloth and tools, instead of making them themselves.
He doubted that the world and all its contents could be made of water and proposed instead a formless and unobservable substance he called   apeiron   that was the source of all matter.
However, instead of lenses made of glass, the transmission electron microscope uses electromagnets as lenses, as do all electron microscopes.
The mature ponderosa trees have bark two inches thick and are relatively resistant to fire, which instead burns out the understory  the lower layer  of fire-sensitive Douglas fir seedlings that have grown up since the previous fire.
Productivity seems to be involved instead, though perhaps its influence is indirect.
Conversely, natteijacks in southern Spain remain active during the mild winters common to the region and are instead forced into inactivity during the dry, hot summer season Summer estivation also occurs by burrowing into the ground or hiding in cool, deep rock crevasses to avoid desiccation and lethal ambient temperatures.
The answer to the first question is that carbon dioxide is still found in abundance on Earth, but now, instead of being in the form of atmospheric carbon dioxide, it is either dissolved in the oceans or chemically bound into carbonate rocks, such as the limestone and marble that formed in the oceans.
This tells us that Callisto has far less of the rocky metallic materials found in the inner planets and must instead be an icy body through much of its interior.
