Edison was more interested in the sale of Kinetoscopes (for roughly $1,000 apiece) to these parlors than in the films that would be run in them (which cost approximately $10 to $15 each).
Ecologists are especially interested to know what factors contribute to the resilience of communities because climax communities all over the world are being severely damaged or destroyed by human activities.
The anthropologist Alexander Marshack has an interesting interpretation of some of the engravings made during the Upper Paleolithic.
Wildman and Niles were particularly interested in investigating the conditions under which reflection might flourish Ca subject on which there is little guidance in the literature.
In experimenting with artificial suns, Kramer made another interesting discovery.
They were interested in all forms of sound technology and all potential avenues for commercial exploitation.
Our ties with people often deepen as we interact with them across time and gradually evolve interlocking habits and interests.
The relations between animal activity and these periods, particularly for the daily rhythms, have been of such interest and importance that a huge amount of work has been done on them and the special research field of chronobiology has emerged.
Numerical increases are used as quantifiable indicators of heightened interest in the new stimulus.
One interesting test of the Alvarez hypothesis is based on the presence of the rare-earth element iridium (Ir).
It is interesting to note that some studies show Caucasian American children have earlier childhood memories than Korean children do.
Forty-three windmills powered the drainage pumps so that they were able to lease the reclamation to farmers as early as 1612, with the investors receiving annual leasing payments at an interest rate of 17 percent.
Although church ritual hand sustained an interest in timekeeping throughout the centuries of urban collapse that followed the fall of Rome, church time was nature  s time.
Though Hubbell and Johnson were interested in how bee behavior might affect colony distributions, they recognized that the availability of potential nest sites for colonies could also affect distributions.
This implied that the city-state was based on the idea that citizens were not specialists but had multiple interests and talents    each a so-called jack-of-all-trades who could engage in many areas of life and politics.
There were getting to be too many persons to know, an easily observable community of interests was being replaced by a multiplicity of interests.
The freshwater Devonian lobe-finned fish rhipidistian crossopterygian is of particular interest to biologists studying tetrapod evolution.
It is interesting that temperate seagrass beds accumulate sediments from sources outside the beds, whereas tropical seagrass beds derive most of their sediments from within.
In the years to come, alliances with the middle classes were to enable kings to weaken aristocratic interests and build the states that came to be called modern.
