Thomas Edison's peepshow device, the Kinetoscope, was introduced to the public in 1894.
The final step came when steam was introduced into the cylinder to drive the piston backward as well as forward, thereby increasing the speed of the engine and cutting its fuel consumption.
Subsequently, other crops, such as bananas, were introduced from Southeast Asia.
Cattle were introduced from Asia, as probably were domestic sheep and goats.
Horses were apparently introduced by the Hyksos invaders of Egypt (1780-1560 B.C.)
Finally, the camel was introduced around the first century A.D.
Trade between the West and the settled and prosperous Chinese dynasties introduced new forms and different technologies.
Only when European decorative themes were introduced did these meanings become obscured or even lost.
Within them, infants and children are introduced to the ways of their society.
When the German chemist Lothar Meyer and (independently) the Russian Dmitry Mendeleyev first introduced the periodic table in 1869-70, one-third of the naturally occurring chemical elements had not yet been discovered.
The astrolabe had long been the primary instrument for navigation, having been introduced in the eleventh century.
In 1950, myxoma virus, a parasite that affects rabbits, was deliberately introduced into Australia to control the rabbit population.
The water is usually naturally occurring groundwater that seeps down along fractures in the rock; less typically, the water is artificially introduced by being pumped down from the surface.
And besides the awkwardness of having to share walls with neighbors, living in aggregated pueblos introduced other problems.
Protected embryos and waterless k dispersal of sex cells were achieved with the origin of seed plans and the key evolutionary innovations that they introduced: pollen, seeds, and later, flowers and fruits.
South African farmers who maintain herds of wild eland (large African antelopes with short, twisted horns) report that the offspring soon diminish in size, unless wild bulls are introduced constantly from outside.
It is still unclear whether domesticated cattle were tamed independently in northern Africa or introduced to the continent from Southwest Asia.Whatever the source of the original tamed herds might have been, it seems entirely likely that much the same process of juxtaposition (living side by side) and control occurred in both Southwest Asia and northern Africa, and even in Europe, among peoples who had an intimate knowledge of the behavior of wild cattle.
This was described by Darwin for indigenous New Zealand species of animals and plants, which died out when competing species from Europe were introduced.
Prairie farmers also introduced new crops that were not part of the earlier ecological system, notably wheat, along with fruits and vegetables.
Papermaking had been introduced to the Islamic lands from China in the eighth century.
However, against this is the potential for reinforcement translocations to spread disease from one population to another or to introduce deleterious or maladaptive genes to a population.
Updated and electrified versions of the freight elevator that had been introduced by Elisha Graves Otis in 1853 (several decades before skyscraper construction) solved this problem.
Furthermore, they have been deliberately introduced throughout the continent.
Finally, the Maori introduced the Polynesian rat and the dog to New Zealand.
For these reasons, it is hard to determine the likelihood that introduced disease organisms were a cause of the decline of moa, but they are potentially significant.
New crops such as corn (maize) and sweet potatoes as well as peanuts and tobacco were introduced from the Americas.
In the years 1446-1448, two German goldsmiths, Johannes Gutenberg and Johann Fust, made use of cheap paper to introduce a critical improvement in the way written pages were reproduced.
Hence, although the Germans made use of the paper revolution to introduce movable type, the Italians went far to regain the initiative by their artistry.
