But the movies differed significantly from these other forms of entertainment, which depended on either live performance or (in the case of the slide-and-lantern shows) the active involvement of a master of ceremonies who assembled the final program.
The development of the oil field on the North Slope of Alaska and the construction of the Alaska pipeline are examples of the great expense and difficulty involved in new oil discoveries.
Spillage from huge oil-carrying cargo ships, called tankers, involved in collisions or accidental groundings (such as the one off Alaska in 1989) can create oil slicks at sea.
The Cambrian explosion involved rapid evolutionary diversification, followed by the extinction of many unique animals.
One involves physiological changes relevant to memory.
Demonstrations of infants   and toddlers' long-term memory have involved their repeating motor activities that they had seen or done earlier, such as reaching in the dark for objects, putting a bottle in a doll  s mouth, or pulling apart two pieces of a toy.
A second explanation involves the influence of the social world on children  s language use.
A third likely explanation for infantile amnesia involves incompatibilities between the ways in which infants encode information and the ways in which older children and adults retrieve it.
Thus, all three explanations  physiological maturation, hearing and producing stories about past events, and improved encoding of key aspects of events  seem likely to be involved in overcoming infantile amnesia.
Clearly, much planning and central control were involved in the expansion and ordering of this great metropolis.
This was justified by the view that reflective practice could help teachers to feel more intellectually involved in their role and work in teaching and enable them to cope with the paucity of scientific fact and the uncertainty of knowledge in the discipline of teaching. 
Orientation is simply facing in the right direction; navigation involves finding ones way from point A to point B.
A primary group involves two or more people who enjoy a direct, intimate, cohesive relationship with one another.
A secondary group entails two or more people who are involved in an impersonal relationship and have come together for a specific, practical purpose.
Host selling involves blending advertisements with regular programming in a way that makes it difficult to distinguish one from the other.
Regarding the appearance of celebrities in advertisements that do not involve host selling, the evidence is mixed.
Unlike rain, which returns rapidly to the sea or atmosphere, the snow that becomes part of a glacier is involved in a much more slowly cycling system.
Commensal associations sometimes involve one species' obtaining food that is inadvertently exposed by another.
The imposition of a military base involved the requisition of native lands for both the fort and the territory needed to feed and exercise the soldiers' animals.
Ecosystems thus involve the circulation, transformation, and accumulation of energy and matter through the medium of living things and their activities.
The climatic changes in southwestern Asia were more subtle, in that they involved shifts in mountain snow lines, rainfall patterns, and vegetation cover.
Petrifaction may also involve a simultaneous exchange of the original substance of a dead plant or animal with mineral matter of a different composition.
The quantities involved are enormous.
Escape involves such actions as aestivation, a condition of prolonged dormancy, or torpor, during which animals reduce their metabolic rate and body temperature during the hot season or during very dry spells.
Certain images depict groups of people, most likely women, involved in weaving textiles, an activity we know from later third-millennium texts to have been vital in the economy and to have been centrally administered.
Some type of mass production by specialists was involved here. 
One of the problems is providing a clear definition of play is that it involves the same behaviors that take place in other circumstances---dominance, predation, competition, and real fighting.
Learning appropriate social behaviors is especially important in species that live in groups, like young monkeys that need to learn to control selfishness and aggression and to understand the give-and-take involved in social groups.
The program, which stresses parental involvement, was designed to serve the   whole child  , including children  s physical health, self-confidence, social responsibility, and social and emotional development.
Much population movement involved the opening up of new lands for rice cultivation.
An example of apparent translocation success involves the threatened Seychelles warbler.
Never before, or since, have so many people been involved in the serious business of self-govemance.
Productivity seems to be involved instead, though perhaps its influence is indirect.
Bartering was a basic trade mechanism for many thousands of years; often sporadic and usually based on notions of reciprocity, it involved the mutual exchange of commodities or objects between individuals or groups.
The change from redistribution to formal trade-often based on regulated commerce that perhaps involved fixed prices and even currency  was closely tied to growing political and social complexity and hence to the development of the state in the ancient world.
A complex sequence of chemical reactions is involved in converting the original solid organic matter to oil and gas, and additional chemical changes may occur in the oil and gas even after they have formed.
Guesses involve the use of accumulated experience from a century of drilling.
The processes that interact to produce an El  Nifio involve conditions all across the Pacific, not just in the waters off South America.
Its use soon widened to document the multitudinous things and acts that are involved in daily life, from simple inventories of commodities to complicated governmental rules and regulations.
Now and then these files include pieces of writing that are of a distinctly different order, writings that do not merely record some matter of fact but involve creative intellectual activity.
The cause of the urban heat island is quite involved.
Tectonic movements involve displacements in the plates that make up Earth  s crust, Middle and Late Pleistocene raised beaches in the Mediterranean are one instance of such movements.
