Even if the new population is of a different species, it can approximately fill the niche vacated by the extinct population and keep the food web intact.
To keep 40 people alive that winter, they consumed approximately 150 elk and 20 deer.
Such an external cue not only coordinates an animal's daily rhythms with particular features of the local solar day but also  because it normally does so day after day-seems to keep the internal clock's period close to that of Earth's rotation.
Accomplishing this feat requires adaptations both to generate heat in the turtle  s body and to keep it from escaping into the surrounding waters.
Leatherbacks keep their body heat in three different ways.
Gigantothermy, though, would not be enough to keep a leatherback warm in cold northern waters.
Perhaps their rush to adulthood is driven by a simple need to keep warm.
Western Farmers borrowed with the confident expectation that the expanding economy would keep farm prices high, thus making it easy to repay loans when they fell due.
Some of the muscles that help keep the upper airway open when breathing tend to become more relaxed during sleep, especially during REM (the phase of sleep in which there is rapid eye movement).
As transportation improved, distant and larger markets within the nation could be reached, thereby encouraging the development of larger factories to keep pace with increasing sales.
By the 1850s McCormick was selling 1,000 reapers a year and could not keep up with demand, while Deere turned out 10,000 plows annually.
How formidable must a geographic barrier be to keep populations apart?
Vermeer did not have any students, did not keep any records, and did not encourage anyone to visit his studio, facts that can be interpreted as protecting his secret use of a camera obscura.
The surrounding soil keeps the nest moist and tends to keep the temperature at a more or less favorable level.
The metabolism of so many termites and of the fungus that they grow in their gardens as food helps keep the interior of the nest warm and supplies some moisture to the air in the nest.
There are some submarine islands called guyots and seamounts, in which subsidence associated with sea-floor spreading has been too speedy for coral growth to keep up.
The slow release of heat tends to keep nighttime city temperatures higher than those of the faster-cooling rural areas.
