By far the most abundant type of groundwater is meteoric water; this is the groundwater that circulates as part of the water cycle.
The most widely accepted theory, championed by anthropologists in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, envisions theater as emerging out of myth and ritual.
A closely related theory sees theater as evolving out of dances that are primarily pantomimic, rhythmical or gymnastic, or from imitations of animal noises and sounds.
In other cases, the finer particles may be removed, while the sand-sized particles are accumulated to form mobile hills or ridges of sand. 
Deer may move from high-elevation browse areas in summer down to the lowland areas in late fall.
Reduction in numbers of game should have boded ill for their survival in later times.
Thus, the paintings are consistent with the idea that the art is related to the importance of hunting in the economy of Upper Paleolithic people.
Microscopic organisms settle to the seafloor and accumulate in marine mud.
Mineral deficiencies can often be detected by specific symptoms such as chlorosis (loss of chlorophyll resulting in yellow or white leaf tissue), necrosis (isolated dead patches), anthocyanin formation (development of deep red pigmentation of leaves or stem), stunted growth, and development of woody tissue in an herbaceous plant.
Toxic minerals would first be absorbed by roots but later relocated to the stem and leaves.
It is now generally believed that these prerequisites originated with peoples speaking Austronesian languages (a group of several hundred related languages) and began to emerge in Southeast Asia by about 5000 B.C.E.
Animals originated relatively late in the history of Earth  in only the last 10 percent of Earth  s history.
Why did it occur so late in the history of Earth?
He later worked on similar jobs across the length and breadth of England, all the while studying the newly revealed strata and collecting all the fossils he could find.
Ever since people had begun to catalog the strata in particular outcrops, there had been the hope that these could somehow be used to calculate geological time.
Limestone may be found in the Cambrian or  300 million years later  in the Jurassic strata, but a trilobite  the ubiquitous marine arthropod that had its birth in the Cambrian  will never be found in Jurassic strata, nor a dinosaur in the Cambrian.
Children two and a half to three years old remember experiences that occurred in their first year, and eleven month olds remember some events a year later.
Maturation of the frontal lobes of the brain continues throughout early childhood, and this part of the brain may be critical for remembering particular episodes in ways that can be retrieved later.
Hearing and telling stories about events may help children store information in ways that will endure into later childhood and adulthood.
Through hearing stories with a clear beginning, middle, and ending children may learn to extract the gist of events in ways that they will be able to describe many years later.
Whether people can remember an event depends critically on the fit between the way in which they earlier encoded the information and the way in which they later attempt to retrieve it.
One question was related to evidence that the invertebrate fauna (animals without spines) of the Mediterranean had changed abruptly about 6 million years ago.
Somewhat later, the migrants returned, bringing new species with them.
The time had come to formulate a hypothesis.
Soon layer of oceanic ooze began to accumulate above the old hard layer.
Horses were adopted by peoples of the West African savannah, and later their powerful cavalry forces allowed them to carve out large empires.
Unlike in the Americas, where metallurgy was a very late and limited development, Africans had iron from a relatively early date, developing ingenious furnaces to produce the high heat needed for production and to control the amount of air that reached the carbon and iron ore necessary for making iron.
The diffusion of agriculture and later of iron was accompanied by a great movement of people who may have carried these innovations.
The exact role of other factors is much more difficult to pinpoint Dfor instance, Teotihuac  n  s religious significance as a shrine, the historical situation in and around the Valley of Mexico toward the end of the first millennium B.C., the ingenuity and foresightedness of Teotihuac  n  s elite, and, finally, the impact of natural disasters, such as the volcanic eruptions of the late first millennium B.C.
Paleontologists have argued for a long time that the demise of the dinosaurs was caused by climatic alterations associated with slow changes in the positions of continents and seas resulting from plate tectonics.
Although initially appealing, the hypothesis of a simple climatic change related to sea levels is insufficient to explain all the data.
Some scientists speculate that Mars may have enjoyed an extended early Period during which rivers, lakes, and perhaps even oceans adorned its surface.
But detractors maintain that the terracescould also have been created by geological activity, perhaps related to the geologic forces that depressed the Northern Hemisphere far below the level of the south, in which case they have nothing whatever to do with Martian water.
He persuasively argued that such an ice-free corridor did not exist until much later, when the continental ice began its final retreat. 
Fladmark and other believe that the first human colonization of America occurred by boat along the Northwest Coast during the very late Ice Age, possibly as early as 14,000 years ago.
Because of the barrier of ice to the east, the Pacific Ocean to the west, and populated areas to the north, there may have been a greater impetus for people to move in a southerly direction.
The teachers were taken through a program of talking about teaching events, moving on to reflecting about specific issues in a supported, and later an independent, manner. 
The first is support from administrators in an education system, enabling teachers to understand the requirements of reflective practice and how it relates to teaching students.
By means of these seeds, plants spread more widely to new locations, even to isolated islands like the Hawaiian archipelago, which lies more than 2,000 miles west of California and 3,500 miles east of Japan.
(Grasses are simple forms of angiosperms that bear their encapsulated seeds on long stalks.)
The tradition of religious sculpture extends over most historical periods but is less clearly delineated than that of stonewares or porcelains, for it embraces the old custom of earthenware burial ceramics with later religious images and architectural ornament.
In the seventeenth century, the trading activities of the Dutch East India Company resulted in vast quantities of decorated Chinese porcelain being brought to Europe, which stimulated and influenced the work of a wide variety of wares, notably Delft.
In the late sixteenth century and into the seventeenth, Europe continued the growth that had lifted it out of the relatively less prosperous medieval period (from the mid 400s to the late 1400s).
Frontality is, however, directly related to the functions of Egyptian statuary and the contexts in which the statues were set up.
The late Ice Age rope found in the French cave of Lascaux consists of fibers spiraling to the right, and was therefore tressed by a righthander.
Though it may be difficult to imagine from a later perspective, a strain of critical opinion in the 1920s predicted that sound film would be a technical novelty that would soon fade from sight, just as had many previous attempts, dating well back before the First World War, to link images with recorded sound.
For instance, apparently normal daily periods of biological activity were maintained for about a week by the fungus Neurospora when it was intentionally isolated from all geophysical timing cues while orbiting in a space shuttle.
Without the external cue, the difference accumulates and so the internally regulated activities of the biological day drift continuously, like the tides, in relation to the solar day.
The second technique relies on evoked potentials, which are electrical brain responses that may be related to a particular stimulus because of where they originate.
In the recent past, the role of celebrities in advertising to children has often been conflated with the concept of host selling.
By the late fourth millennium B.C., there is already evidence of large culture zones reaching from Eastern Europe to the western borders of Mongolia.
Perhaps the most striking sign of mobility is the fact that by the third millennium B.C., most pastoralists in this huge region spoke related languages ancestral to the modern Indo-European languages.
If you are constantly on the move, you cannot afford to accumulate large material surpluses.
Such rules limit variations in accumulated material goods between pastoralist households (though they may also encourage a taste for portable goods of high value such as silks or jewelry).
The late Cretaceous extinction of the dinosaurs and ammonoids was just one of the more drastic in a whole series of such recurrent extinction episodes.
Of the various hypotheses attempting to account for the late Cretaceous extinctions, the one that has attracted the most attention in recent years is the asteroid-impact hypothesis first suggested by Luis and Walter Alvarez.
Glaciers are slowly moving masses of ice that have accumulated on land in areas where more snowfalls during a year than melts.
A surplus allows snow to accumulate and for the pressure of snow accumulated over the years to transform buried snow into glacial ice with a depth great enough for the ice to flow.
The central state, though often very rich and very populous, was intrinsically fragile, since the development of new international trade routes could undermine the monetary base and erode state power, as occurred when European seafarers circumvented Middle Eastern merchants after Vasco da Gama's voyage around Africa in the late fifteenth century opened up a southern route.
By the late 1860's more than 60 chemical elements had been identified, and much was known about their descriptive chemistry.
Just five years later an element with the proper atomic mass was isolated and named gallium by its discoverer.
Together with William Ramsay, Rayleigh isolated the gas (separating it from other substances into its pure state) and named it argon.
Rayleigh and Ramsay postulated the existence of a new group of elements, and in 1898 other members of the series (neon, krypton, and xenon) were isolated.
In the largest caravels, two main masts held large square sails that provided the bulk of the thrust driving the ship forward, while a smaller forward mast held a triangular-shaped sail, called a lateen sail, which could be moved into a variety of positions to maneuver the ship.
A maritime code known as the Consulate of the Sea, which originated in the western Mediterranean region in the fourteenth century, won acceptance by a majority of sea goers as the normative code for maritime conduct; it defined such matters as the authority of a ship's officers, protocols of command, pay structures, the rights of sailors, and the rules of engagement when ships met one another on the sea-lanes.
While some European countries, such as England and Germany, began to industrialize in the eighteenth century, the Netherlands and the Scandinavian countries of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden developed later.
In view of their later start and their lack of coal  undoubtedly the main reason they were not among the early industrializers  it is important to understand the sources of their success.
The people of the Netherlands, with a long tradition of fisheries and mercantile shipping, had difficulty in developing good harbors suitable for steamships: eventually they did so at Rotterdam and Amsterdam, with exceptional results for transit trade with Germany and central Europe and for the processing of overseas foodstuffs and raw materials (sugar, tobacco, chocolate, grain, and eventually oil).
In Denmark and Sweden agricultural reforms took place gradually from the late eighteenth century through the first half of the nineteenth, resulting in a new class of peasant landowners with a definite market orientation.
Below this large, cold, negatively charged region, the cloud is warmer than -15  , and at these temperatures, collisions between ice crystals and falling ice pellets produce positively charged ice pellets that then populate a small region at the base of the cloud. 
Although goods could be requisitioned, they were usually paid for, and this probably stimulated changes in the local economy.
The pool of excess cash rapidly stimulated a thriving economy outside fort gates.
By the later Roman period, frontier garrisons (groups of soldiers) were only rarely transferred, service in units became effectively hereditary, and forts were no longer populated or maintained at full strength.
This process of settling in as a community over several generations, combined with local recruitment, presumably accounts for the apparent stability of the British northern frontier in the later Roman period.
In the late nineteenth century, ecology began to grow into an independent science from its roots in natural history and plant geography.
Light-loving species are always among the first invaders, while shade-tolerant species appear later in the succession.
As geologists mapped glacial deposits in the late nineteenth century, they became aware that there were several layers of drift, the lower ones corresponding to earlier ice ages.
This idea was modified in the late twentieth century, when geologists and oceanographers examining oceanic sediment found fossil evidence of warming and cooling of the oceans.
These roads made possible a reduction in transportation costs and thus stimulated the commercialization of agriculture along their routes.
Some local areas, like the Jordan River valley, the middle Euphrates valley, and some Zagros valleys, were more densely populated than elsewhere.
Five centuries later, about 7700B.C., a new village rose on the mound.
Water containing dissolved silica, calcium carbonate, or iron may circulate through the enclosing sediment and be deposited in cavities such as marrow cavities and canals in bone once occupied by blood vessels and nerves.
Leaves and tissue of soft-bodied organisms such as jellyfish or worms may accumulate, become buried and compressed, and lose their volatile constituents.
The Middle Eocene Messel Shale (from about 48 million years ago) of Germany accumulated in such an environment.
Their remains accumulated on the floor of the lake and were then covered by clay and silt.
    Earth's internal heat, fueled by radioactivity, provides the energy for plate tectonics and continental drift, mountain building, and earthquakes.
Water circulated through heat reservoirs in this temperature range is able to extract enough heat to warm residential, commercial, and industrial spaces.
By the late 1990s some 70 geothermal electric-generating plants were in operation in California, Utah, Nevada, and Hawaii, generating enough power to supply about a million people.
There were, however, fluctuations in the climatic conditions, with the consequences that wet conditions were followed by dry ones, so that the availability of plants and animals oscillated brusquely.
Mithen proposes the existence of four mental elements to account for the emergence of farming: (1) the ability to develop tools that could be used intensively to harvest and process plant resources; (2) the tendency to use plants and animals as the medium to acquire social prestige and power; (3) the tendency to develop "social relationships" with animals structurally similar to those developed with people  specifically, the ability to think of animals as people (anthropomorphism) and of people as animals (totemism); and (4) the tendency to manipulate plants and animals.
Verbal abilities of one year olds are, in fact, related to their memories for events one year later.
When researchers had one year olds imitate an action sequence one year after they first saw it, there was correlation between the children's verbal skills at the time they first saw the event and their success on the later memory task.
The realistic and naturalistic painters of the mid- and late-nineteenth century were all intently aware of photography  as a thing to use, to learn from, and react to.
This was finally achieved by Louis Daguerre (1787-1851), who perfected a way of fixing them on a silvered copper plate.
The rapid technical development of photography  the introduction of lighter and simpler equipment, and of new emulsions that coated photographic plates, film, and paper and enabled images to be made at much faster speeds  had some unanticipated consequences.
All the heat that warms a building eventually transfers to the surrounding air, a process that is quickest where houses are poorly insulated.
But an automobile produces enough heat to warm an average house in winter, and if a house were perfectly insulated, one adult could also produce more than enough heat to warm it.
Importing the grain, which would have been expensive and time consuming for the Dutch to have produced themselves, kept the price of grain low and thus stimulated individual demand for other foodstuffs and consumer goods.
However, what is astonishing about this is not that Dutch agriculture was affected by critical phenomena such as a decrease in sales and production, but the fact that the crisis appeared only relatively late in Dutch agriculture.
In Europe as a whole, the exceptional reduction in the population and the related fall in demand for grain since the beginning of the seventeenth century had caused the price of agricultural products to fall.
Early in the nineteenth century, encounters with Aboriginal rock art tended to be infrequent and open to speculative interpretation, but since the late nineteenth century, awareness of the extent and variety of Australian rock art has been growing.
Then exchanges with the atmosphere are calculated by finding the difference between the gains from rain, as measured (rather roughly) by rain gauges, and the losses by evaporation, measured with models that correct for the other sources of water loss.
The residence time is the average length of time that any particular molecule of water remains in the lake, and it is calculated by dividing the volume of water in the lake by the rate at which water leaves the lake.
It subconsciously adjusts breathing rate and depth in order to regulate the levels of carbon dioxide (CO2) and oxygen (O2), and the acid-base ratio in the blood.
Its control center is based in the forebrain, and it regulates breathing for use in speech, singing, sighing, and so on.
Archaeologists find that even the most isolated residences during the eleventh and twelfth centuries obtained some pottery, and probably food, from some distance away, while major ceremonial events were opportunities for sharing food and crafts.
None of these volcanoes was formed as a result of collisions between plates of the Martian crust-there is no plate motion on Mars.
In the late thirteenth century, northern Italian cities such as Genoa, Florence, and Venice began an economic resurgence that made them into the most important economic centers of Europe.
Historian Frederic Lane observes that after the loss of ships in battle in the late sixteenth century, the shipbuilding industry no long had the capacity to recover that it had displayed at the start of the century. 
All of these features appeared later in the evolutionary history of plants.
When plants first made the transition ashore more than 400 million years ago, the land was barren and desolate, inhospitable to life.
Other adaptations occurred later in the transition to terrestrial life and now wide spread but not universal among plants.
Protected embryos and waterless k dispersal of sex cells were achieved with the origin of seed plans and the key evolutionary innovations that they introduced: pollen, seeds, and later, flowers and fruits.
In the late 1700s James Watt designed an efficient and commercially viable steam engine that was soon applied to a variety of industrial uses as it became cheaper to use.
Most plant tissues die if their water content falls too low: the nutrients that feed plants are transmitted by water; water is a raw material in the vital process of photosynthesis; and water regulates the temperature of a plant by its ability to absorb heat and because water vapor lost to the atmosphere through the leaves helps to lower plant temperatures.
The sparse distribution of the feathers, however, also allows considerable lateral air movement over the skin surface, thereby permitting further heat loss by convection.
It is difficult to isolate the factors that led to the next development  the emergence of urban settlements.
The earliest, that of Eridu, about 4500 B.C.E., and Uruk, a thousand years later, center on impressive temple complexes built of mud brick.
Other innovations of the late fourth millennium include the wheel, probably developed first as a more efficient way of making pottery and then transferred to transport.
A variety of documentation indicates that certain goods, once made by a family member as one of many duties, were later made by skilled artisans.
Certain images depict groups of people, most likely women, involved in weaving textiles, an activity we know from later third-millennium texts to have been vital in the economy and to have been centrally administered.
In the late Uruk period (3500-3100 B.C.E.
Similarly, the late Uruk period shows the first monumental art, relief, and statuary in the round, made with a degree of mastery that only a professional could have produced.
Earth  s surface is not made up of a single sheet of rock that forms a crust but rather a number of   tectonic plates   that fit closely, like the pieces of a giant jigsaw puzzle.
Some plates carry islands or continents, others form the seafloor.
All are slowly moving because the plates float on a denser semiliquid mantle, the layer between the crust and Earth  s core.
The plates have edges that are spreading ridges (where two plates are moving apart and new seafloor is being created), subduction zones (where two plates collide and one plunges beneath the other),or transform faults(where two plates neither converge nor diverge but merely move past one another).It is at the boundaries between plates that most of Earth  s volcanism and earthquake activity occur.
Generally speaking, the interiors of plates are geologically uneventful.
A glance at a map of the Pacific Ocean reveals that there are many islands far out at sea that are actually volcanoes  many no longer active, some overgrown with coral  that originated from activity at points in the interior of the Pacific Plate that forms the Pacific seafloor.
How can volcanic activity occur so far from a plate boundary?
Then in 1963, in the early days of the development of the theory of plate tectonics, Canadian geophysicist Tuzo Wilson realized that this age progression could result if the islands were formed on a surface plate moving over a fixed volcanic source in the interior.
Wilson suggested that the long chain of volcanoes stretching northwest from Hawaii is simply the surface expression of a long-lived volcanic source located beneath the tectonic plate in the mantle.
Then, as the plate moved slowly northwest, new volcanic islands would have forms as the plate moved over the volcanic source.
Wilson  s analysis of these data is now a central part of plate tectonics.
Most volcanoes that occur in the interiors of plates are believed to be produced by mantle plumes, columns of molten rock that rise from deep within the mantle.
The oceanic volcanic islands and their hot-spot trails are thus especially useful for geologists because they record the past locations of the plate over a fixed source.
For example, given the current position of the Pacific Plate, Hawaii is above the Pacific Ocean hot spot.
So the position of the Pacific Plate 50 million years ago can be determined by moving it such that a 50-million-year-old volcano in the hot-spot trail sits at the location of Hawaii today.
When wolves later reached the island, naturalists widely assumed that the wolves would play a key role in controlling the moose population.
In the intergranular spaces of rocks, however, fluid must flow around and between grains in a tortuous path; this winding path causes a resistance to flow.The rate at which the flowing water overcomes this resistance is related to the permeability of rock.
Above the water table is the vadose zone, through which rainwater percolates.
Adult male deer usually produce rubs in late summer or early autumn when the outervelvet layer is being shed from their antlers.
A decade later another study reported that adult male white-tailed deer exhibited forehead rubbing just before and during the rut.
In all but the remotest regions of the empire, Roman pottery of a high standard is common at the sites of humble villages and isolated farmsteads.
But it may also occur among totally unrelated forms that compete for the same resource, such as seed-eating rodents and ants.
On the basis of these experiments and of field observations, the so-called law of competitive exclusion was formulated, according to which no two species can occupy the same niche.
The device appears to have evolved no later than the fifth century B.C., perhaps independently in different regions of the Middle and Far East. 
in the Middle East and a few centuries later in Scandinavia.
The first documented English mill was in the eighth century, but three centuries later about 5,000 were recorded, suggesting that every settlement of any size had its mill.
However, like many later experts, this one would have suffered from an inability to see into the future.
A century later the picture was completely different: by then, the world had an electric industry, and a quarter of its generating capacity was water powered.
Half a century of development was needed before Faraday's discoveries in electricity were translated into full-scale power stations.
Some of he potential benefits relate directly to the healthy development of the brain and nervous system.
Play also stimulates the development of the muscle tissues themselves and may provide the opportunity to practice those movements needed for survival.
Indeed, the very notion of productivity is a byproduct of the clock: once one can relate performance to uniform time units, work is never the same.
In the absence of gene flow between the subpopulations, genetic differences between the groups begin to accumulate.
Allopatric speciation can also be brought by the imperceptibly slow but colossal movements of the tectonic plates that make up Earth  s surface.
In the 1980s, John graves studied two populations of closely related fishes, one population from the Atlantic side of isthmus, the other from the Pacific side.
Second, it appears that closely related populations of fishes on both sides of the isthmus are starting to genetically diverge from each other.
Because Graves  s study of geographically isolated populations of Isthmus fishes offers a glimpse of the beginning of a process of gradual accumulation of mutations that are neutral or adaptive, divergences here might be evidence of allopatric speciation in process. 
For instance, compared with children who did not participate in early intervention programs, participants in various programs showed gains in emotional or cognitive development, better educational outcomes, increased economic self-sufficiency, reduced level of criminal activity, and improved health-related behaviors.
On certain sites, particularly in South America, savanna formation seems related to frequent cutting and burning of moist forests for pastureland.
In the late nineteenth century, political and social changes were occurring rapidly in Siam (now Thailand).
These families were pensioned off(given a sum of money to live on) or simply had their revenues taken away or restricted; their sons were enticed away to schools for district officers, later to be posted in some faraway  province; and the old patron-client relations that had bound together local societies simply disintegrated.
This was probably a large increase over the figure even two or three decades earlier, during the late 1800s.
It is difficult to imagine it now, but Siam  s Central Plain in the late 1800s was nowhere near as densely settled as it is today.
The average annual volume of rice exported from Siam grew from under 60 million kilograms per year in the late 1850s to more than 660 million kilograms per year at the turn of the century; and over the same period the average price per kilogram doubled.
Fights may be escalated into protracted battles.
By 1850 the United States possessed roughly 9,000 miles of railroad track; then years later it had over 30,000 miles, more than the rest of the world combined.
Native Americans had grown corn in the region for years, but never in such large fields as did later settlers who became farmers, whose surpluses were shipped east.
An extremely abundant set of planktonic marine animals called foraminifera largely disappeared, although they rebounded later.
Coal was first used in Britain in the late Middle Ages as a source of heat.
Similar applications of this concept were to be used again and again in later centuries to estimate the ages of rock formations and, in particular, of layers of sediment that had compacted and cemented to form sedimentary rocks.
Forces associated with subterranean heat cause land to be uplifted into plateaus and mountain ranges.
Some are likely toxins, such as those released by the dinoflagellates (a species of plankton) during red tides, which inhibit growth of other photosynthetic organisms.
In such cases, the population explosion of dinoflagellates is so great that the water becomes brownish red in color from the billions of dinoflagellate cells.
Although each cell secretes a minute amount of toxin, the massive dinoflagellate numbers cause the toxin to reach concentrations that kill many creatures.
He collected hundreds of different species of animals, and he saw that they were distributed in eight different depth zones, each containing its own distinct assemblage of animal life, the way zones of elevation on the side of a mountain are populated by distinct sets of plants. 
Forbes also thought he saw, as he later told the British Association, that   the number of species and individuals diminishes as we descend, pointing to a zero in the distribution of animal life as yet unvisited.
This zero, Forbes casually speculated--he simply extended a line on his graph of animal number versus depth--probably began at a depth of 1,800 feet.
One was the particular study site he happened to use as a springboard for his sweeping postulate of a lifeless abyss.
As would later happen between another teacher-student pair of philosophers, Plato and Aristotle, Anaximander disagreed with his teacher despite his respect for him.
He believed, though, that the shape of Earth was that of a cylinder rather than the sphere that later Greek philosophers would conjecture.
Anaximander, observing the motions of the heavens around the polestar, was probably the first of the Greek philosophers to picture the sky as sphere completely surrounding Earth--an idea that, elaborated upon later, would prevail until the advent of the Scientific Revolution in the seventeenth century. 
Anaximenes may have also been the first to study rainbows and speculate upon their natural rather than supernatural cause. 
With the door opened by Thales and the other early philosophers of Milestus, Greek thinkers began to speculate about the nature of the universe.
In a fragmented landscape where many populations and habitats are isolated from others, translocations can play an effective role in conservation strategies; they can increase the number of existing populations or increase the size, genetic diversity, and demographic balance of a small population, consequently increasing its chances of survival. 
On the other hand were purely utilitarian structures, such as factories and grain elevators, which employed modern materials such as steel girders and plate glass in an undisguised and unadorned manner.
After ten or twelve stories, masonry construction reaches a maximum possible height, since it runs into difficulties of compression and of inadequate lateral strength to combat wind shear.
By the late 1980s.
As a result, the scribes were assigned their own goddess, Nisaba, later replaced by the god Nabu of Borsippa, whose symbol is neither weapon nor dragon but something far more fearsome, the cuneiform stick. 
The complexity of the microclimate is closely related to the complexity of structure in vegetation, and generally speaking, the more complex the structure of vegetation, the more speeds of animal are able to make a living there.
In contrast to mammals and birds, amphibians are unable to produce thermal energy through their metabolic activity, which would allow them to regulate their body temperature independent of the surrounding or ambient temperature.
With no oceans to dissolve it, outgassed carbon dioxide began to accumulate in the atmosphere, intensifying the greenhouse effect even more.
The change from redistribution to formal trade-often based on regulated commerce that perhaps involved fixed prices and even currency  was closely tied to growing political and social complexity and hence to the development of the state in the ancient world.
Many archaeologists and paleobotanists now question this view, pointing out that the available evidence for cultivated vines and olives suggests that they were present only in the later Bronze Age.
Authorities at both ends might regulate the profits fed back to the source, providing the incentive for further transactions.
With its gene pool isolated, a separate population can follow its own evolutionary course.
Many factors can isolate a population geographically.
A mountain range may emerge and gradually split a population of organisms that can inhabit only lowland lakes; certain fish populations might become isolated in this way.
For example, the Grand Canyon, in the southwestern United States, separates the range of the white-tailed antelope squirrel from that of the closely related Harris' antelope squirrel.
Geographic isolation creates opportunities for new species to develop, but it does not necessarily lead to new species because speciation occurs only when the gene pool undergoes enough changes to establish reproductive barriers between the isolated population and its parent population.
The likelihood of allopatric speciation increases when a population is small as well as isolated, making it more likely than a large population to have its gene pool changed substantially.
For instance, the Galapagos island chain has a total of thirteen species of closely related birds called Galapagos finches.
These birds have many similarities but differ in their feeding habits and their beak type, which is correlated with what they eat.
Accumulated evidence indicates that all thirteen finch species evolved from a single small population of ancestral birds that colonized one of the islands.
Completely isolated on the island after migrating from the mainland, the founder population may have undergone significant changes in its gene pool and become a new species.
Later, a few individuals of this new species may have been blown by storms to a neighboring island Isolated on this second island, the second founder population could have evolved into a second new species, which could later recolonize the island from which its founding population emigrated.
There are even indications of large-scale crustal movements that are similar to the plate tectonics of Earth.
Guesses involve the use of accumulated experience from a century of drilling.
It was later realized that there is a close link between El Nino and the Southern Oscillation.
In experimenting with it, he found that it is actually quite difficult to use for drawing, and he speculates that the artists probably combined their observations from life with tracing of shapes.
The slowing of wave action and currents means that seagrass beds tend to accumulate sediment.
Seagrass beds under the influence of strong currents tend to have many of the lighter particles, including seagrass debris, moved out, whereas beds in weak current areas accumulate lighter detrital material.
It is interesting that temperate seagrass beds accumulate sediments from sources outside the beds, whereas tropical seagrass beds derive most of their sediments from within.
Since most seagrass systems are depositional environments, they eventually accumulate organic material that leads to the creation of fine-grained sediments with a much higher organic content than that of the surrounding unvegetated areas.
Filtering seawater for its particulate nutritional content can be an energetically demanding method of feeding, particularly when the current of water to be filtered has to be generated by the organism itself, as is the case for all planktonic animals.
Particulate organic matter of at least 2.5 micrograms per cubic liter is required to provide a filter-feeding planktonic organism with a net energy gain This value is easily exceeded in most coastal waters, but in the deep sea, the levels of organic matter range from next to nothing to around 7 micrograms per cubic liter.
By the late thirteenth century, Hanseatic merchants had developed an important business technique, the business register.
This device proved a decisive factor in the later development of credit and commerce in northern Europe.
The slow but steady transformation of European society from almost completely rural and isolated to relatively more urban constituted the greatest effect of the commercial revolution that began in the eleventh century.
It was constructed in the latest Italian style with imported marbles and stylish mosaics.
The thick and dense wall of the mound insulates the interior microclimate from the variations in humidity and temperature of the outside atmosphere.
But how is this well-insulated nest ventilated?
He recognized that there were three major kinds: fringing reefs, barrier reefs, and atolls; and he saw that they were related to each other in a logical and gradational sequence.
Falls in sea level often exposed a number of important land bridges, such as those linking Alaska to northeast Asia and Britain to northwest Europe, a phenomenon with far reaching effects not only on human colonization of the globe but also on the environment as a whole-the flora and fauna of isolated or insular areas were radically and often irreversibly affected.
Tectonic movements involve displacements in the plates that make up Earth  s crust, Middle and Late Pleistocene raised beaches in the Mediterranean are one instance of such movements.
To this in late Roman times was added parchment, similarly made from the smoothed skin of sheep or goats.
One of the most important phenomena of the later Middle Ages was the growing availability of cheap paper.
German printers had the disadvantage of working with the complex typeface that the Italians sneeringly referred to as "Gothic" and that later became known as black letter.
