In order for the structure to achieve the size and strength necessary to meet its purpose, architecture employs methods of support that, because they are based on physical laws, have changed little since people first discovered them  even while building materials have changed dramatically.
Advancing technology and strict laws, however, are helping control some of these adverse environmental effects. 
The organizational bonds were based on the common principles of law and administration and on the universal army of officials who enforced common standards of conduct.
The Roman genius was projected into new spheres  especially into those of law, military organization, administration, and engineering.
To be sure, their evaluation of the technical flaws in 1920s sound experiments was not so far off the mark, yet they neglected to take into account important new forces in the motion picture field that, in a sense, would not take no for an answer.
The close correspondence between the observed properties of gallium and Mendeleyev  s predictions for eka-aluminum lent strong support to the periodic law.
Another flaw of the tiredness theory is that yawning does not raise alertness or physiological activity, as the theory would predict.
Clements and other early ecologists saw almost lawlike regularity in the order of succession, but that has not been substantiated.
In 1820 under a new land law, a farm could be bought for $100.
Texts dealing with economic matters predominated, as they always had done; but at this point works of theology, literature, history, and law also appeared.
With handmade pottery, inevitably there are slight differences between individual vessels of the same design and occasional minor blemishes (flaws).
On the basis of these experiments and of field observations, the so-called law of competitive exclusion was formulated, according to which no two species can occupy the same niche.
Numerous seeming exceptions to this law have since been found, but they can usually be explained as cases in which the two species, even though competing for a major joint resource, did not really occupy exactly the same niche.
Various other techniques to estimate Earth's age fell short, and particularly noteworthy in this regard were flawed determinations of the Sun's age.
Later, Babylonian scribes recorded the laws and kept other kinds of records.
The focus of life was the agora, the open marketplace where assemblies could be held and where issues of the day, as well as more fundamental topics such as the purpose of government or the relationship between law and freedom, could be discussed and decisions made by individuals in person.
Many of these animals are also armed with sharp claws.
The advantage of teeth and claws as predatory tools is obvious.
