But neither the human imitative instinct nor a penchant for fantasy by itself leads to an autonomous theater.
Research has focused on the toxic effects of heavy metals such as lead, cadmium, mercury, and aluminum; however, even copper and zinc, which are essential elements, can become toxic in high concentrations.
A survey of known hyperaccumulators identified that 75 percent of them amassed nickel, cobalt, copper, zinc, manganese, lead, and cadmium are other minerals of choice.
Hearing the stories may lead preschoolers to encode aspects of events that allow them to form memories they can access as adults.
It was no accident that many leading Roman soldiers and statesmen were writers of high caliber.
With Cuicuilco eliminated as a potential rival, any one of a number of relatively modest towns might have emerged as a leading economic and political power in Central Mexico.
Few have directly questioned what might lead a teacher to want to become reflective.
Ceramic products also include lead-glazed tomb models of the Han dynasty, three-color lead-glazed vessels and figures of the Tang dynasty, and Ming three-color temple ornaments, in which the motifs were outlined in a raised trail of slip  as well as the many burial ceramics produced in imitation of vessels made in materials of higher intrinsic value.
One way to estimate how all the various processes leading to climate variability will combine is by using computer models of the global climate.
The Independent Television Commission, regulator of television advertising in the United Kingdom, has criticized advertisers for "misleadingness"  creating a wrong impression either intentionally or unintentionally  in an effort to control advertisers' use of techniques that make it difficult for children to judge the true size, action, performance, or construction of a toy.
General concern about misleading tactics that advertisers employ is centered on the use of exaggeration.
Claims such as "the best" or "better than" can be subjective and misleading; even adults may be unsure as to their meaning.
Fantasy is one of the more common techniques in advertising that could possibly mislead a young audience.
The growth of independent guilds was furthered by the fact that surplus was not a result of domestic craft production but resulted primarily from international trading; the government left working people to govern themselves, much as shepherds of tribal confederacies were left alone by their leaders.
In the multiplicity of small-scale local egalitarian or quasi-egalitarian organizations for fellowship, worship, and production that flourished in this laissez-faire environment, individuals could interact with one another within a community of harmony and ideological equality, following their own popularly elected leaders and governing themselves by shared consensus while minimizing distinctions of wealth and power.
The orderly nature of our solar system leads most astronomers to conclude that the planets formed at essentially the same time and from the same material as the Sun.
The imposition of military rule also robbed local leaders of opportunities to participate in local government, so social development was stunted and the seeds of disaffection sown.
Hence a writing tablet dated 25 April tells of 343 men at one fort engaged on tasks like shoemaking, building a bathhouse, operating kilns, digging clay, and working lead.
Even some authors who accepted the climax concept rejected Clements' characterization of it as a superorganism, and it is indeed a misleading metaphor.
Though it is true that many animals are strictly associated with certain plants, it is misleading to speak of a "spruce-moose biome," for example, because there is no internal cohesion to their association as in an organism.
Certain features of these engravings lead to the conclusion that they are of great age  geological changes had clearly happened after the designs had been made and local Aboriginal informants, when first questioned about them, seemed to know nothing of their origins.
The slowing down of water renewal leads to a chain of further consequences; it causes dissolved chemicals to become increasingly concentrated, and this, in turn, has a marked effect on all living things in the lake.
Water temperature can fluctuate seasonally or even daily and changing level of rainfall can lead to fluctuations in the concentration of chemical in the water or even to period in which the aquatic habitat dries up.
Do increasing numbers of hares lead to overhavesting of plants, which in turn results in reduced hare populations, or do increasing numbers of lynx lead to overhavesting of hares?
It is one of the factors controlling the size of competing populations, and extreme cases it may lead to the extinction of one of the competing species.
The evolutionary effect of competition on species has been referred to as "species selection;" however, this description is potentially misleading.
There is a danger, of course, that play may be misinterpreted or not recognized as play by others, potentially leading to aggression.
No significant discontinuities were observed, leading Sheldon to conclude that environmental conditions were quite stable during the period he examined. 
The most recent comprehensive evaluation of early intervention programs suggests that, taken as a group, preschools programs can provide significant benefits, and that government funds invested early in life may ultimately lead to a reduction in future costs.
By means of their military prowess, dominant personalities, or political talents, these people gradually emerge as the leaders of that community.
Vast forests enabled Russia to become the world  s leading producer of iron, much of which was exported to Britain.
From the initial work came a suite of discoveries leading to radio isotopic dating, which quickly led to the realization that Earth must be billions of years old, and to the discovery of nuclear fusion as an energy source capable of sustaining the Sun's luminosity for that amount of time.
A diet higher in wild cereals produces proportionally more body fat, leading to higher fertility among women.
Impinging on the neighbors' territory can lead to conflict, especially when they too are up against the capacity of the land to provide enough food.
The expansion of agriculture, however, does not necessarily lead to rapid increases in their abundance.
This leads to a complex structure in the layers of plant material.
The high plant biomass of the tropics leads to a greater spatial complexity in the environment, and this leads to a higher potential for diversity in the living things that can occupy a region.
Redistribution of these goods through society lay in the hands of chiefs, religious leaders, or kin groups.
Thus, argued Rathje, long-distance trade networks were organized through local ceremonial centers and their leaders.
Geographic isolation creates opportunities for new species to develop, but it does not necessarily lead to new species because speciation occurs only when the gene pool undergoes enough changes to establish reproductive barriers between the isolated population and its parent population.
From an artist  s point of view, Hockney observed that a camera obscura compresses the complicated forms of a three-dimensional scene into two-dimensional shapes that can easily be traced and also increases the contrast between light and dark, leading to the chiaroscuro effect seen in many of these paintings.
Since most seagrass systems are depositional environments, they eventually accumulate organic material that leads to the creation of fine-grained sediments with a much higher organic content than that of the surrounding unvegetated areas.
Such pieces perhaps first came with officials for their own religious worship; others were then acquired by native leaders as diplomatic gifts or by purchase.
Their most successful scriptorium quickly imported two leading German printers to set up presses in their book-producing shop.
