For example, some early societies ceased to consider certain rites essential to their well-being and abandoned them, nevertheless, they retained as parts of their oral tradition the myths that had grown up around the rites and admired them for their artistic qualities rather than for their religious usefulness. 
The transition from forest to treeless tundra on a mountain slope is often a dramatic one.
In the tropics, the valleys appear to be more favorable because they are less prone to dry out, they have less frost, and they have deeper soils.
In the equatorial mountains the low growth form is less prevalent.
Many have been attempting to conserve water by irrigating less frequently or by switching to crops that require less water.
Both oil and gas are less dense than water, so they generally tend to rise upward through water-saturated rock and sediment. 
Much of the research on nutrient deficiencies is based on growing plants hydroponically, that is, in soilless liquid nutrient solutions.
Fossilization of soft-bodied animals is less likely than fossilization of hard-bodied animals, but it does occur.
Of course, the contrast is not quite so stark: in Alexander the Great the Greeks had found the greatest territorial conqueror of all time; and the Romans, once they moved outside Italy, did not fail to learn the lessons of sea power.
This disruption of food chain and climate would have eradicated the dinosaurs and other organisms in less than fifty years.
The tradition of religious sculpture extends over most historical periods but is less clearly delineated than that of stonewares or porcelains, for it embraces the old custom of earthenware burial ceramics with later religious images and architectural ornament.
While these records provide broadly consistent indications that temperature variations can occur on a global scale, there are nonetheless some intriguing differences, which suggest that the pattern of temperature variations in regional climates can also differ significantly from each other.
In the late sixteenth century and into the seventeenth, Europe continued the growth that had lifted it out of the relatively less prosperous medieval period (from the mid 400s to the late 1400s).
Populations cannot grow unless the rural economy can produce enough additional food to feed more people.
Early in his research, Kramer found that caged migratory birds became very restless at about the time they would normally have begun migration in the wild.
He then set up experiments with caged starlings and found that their orientation was, in fact, in the proper migratory direction except when the sky was overcast, at which times there was no clear direction to their restless movements.
These loud cheeps and peeps might give the location of the nest away to a listening hawk or raccoon, resulting in the death of the defenseless nestlings.
The hypothesis that begging calls have evolved properties that reduce their potential for attracting predators yields a prediction: baby birds of species that experience high rates of nest predation should produce softer begging signals of higher frequency than nestlings of other species less often victimized by nest predators.
Indeed, if you take baby tree swallows out of a nest for an hour feeding half the set and starving the other half, when the birds are replaced in the nest, the starved youngsters beg more loudly than the fed birds, and the parent birds feed the active beggars more than those who beg less vigorously.
These forces were the rapidly expanding electronics and telecommunications companies that were developing and linking telephone and wireless technologies in the 1920s.
The author George Comstock suggested that less than a quarter of children between the ages of six and eight years old understood standard disclaimers used in many toy advertisements and that disclaimers are more readily comprehended when presented in both audio and visual formats.
Nevertheless, disclaimers are mainly presented in audio format only.
The ancient Maya were presumably more experienced and did better, but nevertheless they too must have faced risks of crop failures from droughts and hurricanes.
Nonetheless, an adult leatherback can maintain a body temperature of between 25 and 26  C (77-79  F) in seawater that is only 8  C (46.4  F).
The bigger the animal is, the lower its surface-to-volume ratio; for every ounce of body mass, there is proportionately less surface through which heat can escape.
The Permian event has attracted much less attention than other mass extinctions because mostly unfamiliar species perished at that time.
As the air space around them is lessened by compaction and melting, the grains become denser.
Europe's maritime tradition had developed in the context of easily navigable seas  the Mediterranean, the Baltic, and, to a lesser extent, the North Sea between England and the Continent  not of vast oceans.
The virus was less deadly to the offspring of surviving rabbits, however, and it caused less and less harm over the years.
Nevertheless, mature natural environments are usually in equilibrium.
They change relatively little through time unless the environment itself changes.
Even less fortunate was the extension of this type of thinking to include animals as well as plants.
Nevertheless, one still speaks of the ecosystem when referring to a local association of animals and plants, usually without paying much attention to the energy aspects.
In American society, however, the class structure was less rigid; some people changed occupations easily and believed it was their duty to improve their social and economic position.
As a result, many Americans were an inveterately restless, rootless, and ambitious people.
Transportation was becoming less of a problem for those who wished to move west and for those who hand farm surpluses to send to market.
After the canal went into operation, the cost per mile of transporting a ton of freight from Buffalo to New York City declined from nearly 20 cents to less than 1 cent.
The water is usually naturally occurring groundwater that seeps down along fractures in the rock; less typically, the water is artificially introduced by being pumped down from the surface.
How did it come about that farming developed independently in a number of world centers (the Southeast Asian mainland, Southwest Asia, Central America, lowland and highland South America, and equatorial Africa) at more or less the same time?
However, it should be kept in mind that many societies that knew of agriculture more or less consciously avoided it.
This friction tends to slow the speed of winds, making them far less efficient at dispersing pollutants.
However, land reclamation decreased significantly after the middle of the seventeenth century because the price of agricultural products began to fall, making land reclamation far less profitable in the second part of the century. 
Lake Erie  s is the lowest: although its area is larger than Lake Ontario   s, its volume is less than one-third as great because it is so   shallow-less than 20 meters on average.
During NREM (the phase of sleep in which there is no rapid eye movement) breathing becomes deeper and more regular, but there is also a decrease in the breathing rate, resulting in less air being exchanged overall.
This occurs because during NREM sleep the automatic, metabolic system has exclusive control over breathing and the body uses less oxygen and produces less carbon dioxide.
Also, during sleep the automatic metabolic system is less responsive to carbon dioxide levels and oxygen levels in the blood.
In addition, breathing during REM depends much more on the action of the diaphragm and much less on rib cage action.
Although the climate remained as unpredictable as ever between one year and   the next, it became much less locally diverse.
The lower the gravity, the lesser the weight and the greater the height of the mountain.
On the Moon, ancient craters less than 100 meters across (corresponding to depths of about 20 meters) have been obliterated, primarily by meteoritic erosion.
On Mars, there are relatively few craters less than 5 kilometers in diameter.
Protected embryos and waterless k dispersal of sex cells were achieved with the origin of seed plans and the key evolutionary innovations that they introduced: pollen, seeds, and later, flowers and fruits.
Thus even the less competitive species are able to survive.
South African farmers who maintain herds of wild eland (large African antelopes with short, twisted horns) report that the offspring soon diminish in size, unless wild bulls are introduced constantly from outside.
A rub is usually located at the shoulder height of a deer (one meter or less above the ground) on a smooth-barked, small-diameter (16-25 millimeters) tree.
Fresher buck rubs (less than two days old), in particular, are visited more frequently by adult females than older rubs.
Most are made by older males, although females and younger males (2.5 years old or less) occasionally make scrapes.
It has been estimated that Monte Testaccio contains the remains of some 53 million amphorae, in which around 6,000 million liters of oil were imported into the city from overseas, imports into imperial Rome were supported by the full might of the state and were therefore quite exceptional  but the size of the operations at Monte Testaccio, and the productivity and complexity that lay behind them, nonetheless cannot fail to impress.
The capacity of individual power stations, many of them hydro plants, rose from a few kilowatts to over a megawatt in less than a decade.
At the end of the experiments, the results showed that the actual weight of the brains of the impoverished rats was less than that of those raised in the enriched environment (though they were fed the same diets).
Most of these things are learned in the long developmental periods that primates have, during which they engage in countless play experiences with their peers. 
The result was relentless pressure to improve technique and design.
In addition, results from other types of preschool readiness programs indicate that those who participate and graduate are less likely to repeat grades, and they are more likely to complete school than readiness program, for every dollar spent on the program, taxpayers saved seven dollars by the time the graduates reached the age of 27. 
Furthermore, some researchers argue that less-expensive programs are just as good as relatively expensive ones, such as Head Start.
If colonizers produce short-lived reproductive propagules, then they must produce very large numbers unless they have an efficient means of dispersal to suitable new habitats.
The rural population both dispersed and grew, and was probably less homogeneous and more mobile than it hand been a generation earlier.
The villages became more vulnerable to arbitrary treatment by government bureaucrats as local elites now hand less control over them.
They studied competition and nest spacing in populations of stingless bees in tropical dry forests in Costa Rica.
Stingless bees are abundant in tropical and subtropical environments, where they gather nectar and pollen from a wide variety of flowers.
Hubbell and Johnson observed that some species of stingless bees are highly aggressive to members of their species from other colonies, while other species are not.
Hubbell and Johnson studied several species of stingless bees to determine whether there is a relationship between aggressiveness and patterns of colony distribution.
They concentrated their studies on a thirteen-hectare tract of tropical dry forest that contained numerous nests of nine species of stingless bees.
Hubbell and Johnson mapped the nests of five of the nine species of stingless bees accurately, and the nests of four of these species were distributed regularly.
The pheromone secreted by these stingless bees attracts and aggregates members of their colony to the prospective nest site; however, it also attracts workers from other nests.
Before the railroad reached Tennessee, the state produced about 25,000 bushels (or 640 tons) of wheat, which sold for less than 50 cents a bushel.
Commercial agriculture transformed this remarkable treeless environment.
Collectively, more species went extinct during smaller events that were less dramatic but more frequent.
Nevertheless, climatic explanations for the K-T extinction are not really challenged by the ideas that dinosaurs may have been endothermic, because even endotherms can be affected by a significant change in the climate.
Although paper was never as cheap as it has become today, it was far less expensive than parchment, and therefore more people could afford to buy books.
Nevertheless, most ecologists believe that all extrafloral nectaries attract insects that will defend the plant. 
When buds are still small, less than a quarter of an inch long, the sepal nectaries are already present and producing nectar.
With the further assumption that these geologic processes were generally no more or less vigorous than they are today, Hutton's examination of sedimentary layers led him to realize that Earth's history must be enormous, that geologic time is an abyss and human history a speck by comparison.
These underestimated the actual age by factors of 10 to 50 because much of the sedimentary record is missing in various locations and because there is a long rock sequence that is older than half a billion years that is far less well defined in terms of fossils and less well preserved.
Ages for Earth were derived that were in the tens of millions of years, much less than the geologic estimates of the lime.
Since women are less fertile when they are breast-feeding, substituting cereals for mother  s milk would have resulted in closer spacing of births and the potential for a greater number of live births for each woman.
One was the particular study site he happened to use as a springboard for his sweeping postulate of a lifeless abyss.
Originally moths were uniformly pale gray or whitish in color; dark-colored (melanic) individuals were rare and made up less than 2 percent of the population.
The mean concentration of sulphur dioxide pollution fell from about 300 micrograms per cubic meter in 1970 to less than 50 micrograms per cubic meter in 1975 and has remained fairly constant since then If the spread of the light-colored form of the moth continues at the same speed as the melanic form spread in the last century, soon the melanic form will again be only an occasional resident of the Liverpool area.
His two best-known followers, though there were undoubtedly others who attained less renown, were Anaximander and Anaximenes.
He doubted that the world and all its contents could be made of water and proposed instead a formless and unobservable substance he called   apeiron   that was the source of all matter.
Nonetheless, modern architects did not simply employ these new materials in a strictly practical fashion---they consciously exploited their aesthetic possibilities.
Nonetheless, they have not replaced the light microscope.
Even though raccoons may not have been a significant part of their diet, wolves surely would have tried to prey on those exposed in relatively treeless areas.
On the positive side, proponents of transgenic crops argue that these crops are environmentally friendly because they allow farmers to use fewer and less noxious chemicals for crop production.
Now extinct, moa were gigantic wingless birds that stood as much as 10 feet (3 meters) tall and weighed as much as 550 pounds (250 kilograms).
This period was followed by a time of decline in the Maori population and a societal transition to smaller, less numerous settlements.
That happy situation began to change in the 1980s, due to the increasing frequency of large forest fires that were essentially impossible to extinguish unless rain and low winds combined to help.
When a fire finally does start in a sapling-choked forest, whether due to lightning or human carelessness or (regrettably often) intentional arson, the dense, tall saplings young trees) may become a ladder that allows the fire to jump into the crowns of the trees.
The strength of the Athenian aristocracy was further weakened during the rest of the century by the rise of a type of government known as a tyranny, which is a form of interim rule by a popular strongman (not rule by a ruthless dictator as the modem use of the term suggests to us).
This wide-scale participation by the citizenry in the government distinguished the democratic form of the Athenian polls from other, less liberal forms.
There is also a large mass of material, developed below ground as root tissues, but this is less apparent Careful analysis of the aboveground material reveals that it is arranged in a series of layers, the precise number of layers varying with age and the nature of the forest The arrangement of the biological mass (biomass) of the vegetation into layered forms is termed its "structure" (as opposed to its "composition", which refers to the species of organisms forming the community).
Forests in temperate lands often have just two canopy layers, so they have much less complex architecture.
The climates of the higher latitudes are generally less favorable for the accumulation of large quantities of biomass; hence, the structure of vegetation is simpler and the animal diversity is consequently lower.
Since water vapor is a greenhouse gas, this humid atmosphere-perhaps denser than Earth  s present-day atmosphere, but far less dense than the atmosphere that envelops Venus today  would have efficiently trapped heat from the Sun.
Trade, nevertheless, was probably one of many variables that led to the emergence of palace economies in Minoan Crete.
For example, in less than two million years, small populations of stray animals and plants from the South American mainland that managed to colonize the Galapagos Islands gave rise to all the species that now inhabit the islands.
This tells us that Callisto has far less of the rocky metallic materials found in the inner planets and must instead be an icy body through much of its interior.
Ganymede, another of Jupiter's satellites and the largest in our solar system, is also cratered, but less so than Callisto.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the highest ratio of oil and gas pools to volume of sediment is found in rock no older than 2.5 million years  young enough so that little of the petroleum has leaked away  and that nearly 60 percent of all oil and gas discovered so far has been found in strata that formed in the last 65 million years This does not mean that older rocks produced less petroleum; it simply means that oil in older rocks has had a longer time in which to leak away.
While the warm-water countercurrent usually lasts for two months or less, there are occasions when the disruption to the normal flow lasts for many months.
Broad, windswept valleys; glaciated mountains; sparse vegetation; and less moisture created a rather forbidding land mass.
These are at best a waste and at worst an impediment to the transfer of pollen in the air The result is insignificant-looking flowers and catkins (dense cylindrical clusters of small, petalless flowers).
Evergreen conifers, which do not shed their leaves, have less to gain from spring flowering, and, indeed, some flower in the autumn or winter.
Second, diverse ecosystems may be less likely to be invaded by new species, notably exotics (foreign species living outside their native range), that would disrupt the ecosystem  s structure and function.
Third, in a species-rich ecosystem, diseases may spread more slowly because most species will be relatively less abundant, thus increasing the average distance between individuals of the same species and hampering disease transmission among individuals.
In an experiment that began in 1982, they compared these values with the number of plant species in each plot and discovered that the plots with a greater number of plant species experienced a less dramatic reduction in biomass.
Apparently, species-rich plots were likely to contain some drought-resistant plant species that grew better in drought years, compensating for the poor growth of less-tolerant species.
The surrounding soil keeps the nest moist and tends to keep the temperature at a more or less favorable level.
An important environment that is more or less totally restricted to the intertropical zone is the coral reef.
Coral reefs are found where the ocean water temperature is not less than 21   C, where there is a firm substratum, and where the seawater is not rendered too dark by excessive amounts of river-borne sediment.
In herbivorous animals, rapid jaw closure is less important.
In cities, where less vegetation and exposed soil exist, the majority of the Sun  s energy is absorbed by urban structures and asphalt.
Hence, during warm daylight hours, less evaporative cooling in cities allows surface temperatures to rise higher than in rural areas.
Overall, the heat island is strongest (1) at night when compensating sunlight is absent; (2) during the winter, when nights are longer and there is more heat generated in the city; and (3) when the region is dominated by a high-pressure area with light winds, clear skies, and less humid air.
Nevertheless, for archeologists concerned with the long periods of time of the Paleolithic period there are variations in coastlines of much greater magnitude to consider.
