Another, advanced in the twentieth century, suggests that humans have a gift for fantasy, through which they seek to reshape reality into more satisfying forms than those encountered in daily life.
In an area where low temperatures are limiting to life, the importance of the additional heat near the surface is crucial.
It has been suggested that Pakicetus fed on fish in shallow water and was not yet adapted for life in the open ocean.
It was undoubtedly a whale that linked life on land with life at sea
Humans instinctively seek structures that will shelter and enhance their way of life.
Buildings contribute to human life when they provide shelter, enrich space, complement their site, suit the climate, and are economically feasible.
David Douglas, Scottish botanical explorer of the 1830s, found a disturbing change in the animal life around the fort during the period between his first visit in 1825 and his final contact with the fort in 1832.
Some soils are notoriously deficient in micro nutrients and are therefore unable to support most plant life.
The geologic timescale is marked by significant geologic and biological events, including the origin of Earth about 4.6 billion years ago, the origin of life about 3.5 billion years ago, the origin of eukaryotic life-forms (living things that have cells with true nuclei) about 1.5 billion years ago, and the origin of animals about 0.6 billion years ago.
The origin of multicellular forms of life seems a relatively simple step compared to the origin of life itself.
Why did animal life evolve so quickly?
What do you remember about your life before you were three?
In turn, a deep attachment to the land, and to the stability which rural life engenders, fostered the Roman virtues: gravitas, a sense of responsibility, peitas, a sense of devotion to family and country, and iustitia, a sense of the natural order.
Long-distance trade in obsidian probably gave the elite residents of Teotihuac  n access to a wide variety of exotic good, as well as a relatively prosperous life.
Support and encouragement were also required to help teachers in the program cope with aspects of their professional life with which they were not comfortable.
It is significant that the earliest living things that built communities on these islands are examples of symbiosis, a phenomenon that depends upon the close cooperation of two or more forms of life and a principle that is very important in island communities. 
Now, other forms of life could take hold: ferns and mosses (two of the most ancient types of land plants) that flourish even in rock crevices.
But only those few spores that settle down in very favorable locations can start new life; the vast majority fall on barren ground.
The dragon represented the emperor, and the phoenix, the empress; the pomegranate indicated fertility, and a pair of fish, happiness; mandarin ducks stood for wedded bliss; the pine tree, peach, and crane are emblems of long life; and fish leaping from waves indicated success in the civil service examinations.
They are vital for sustaining life in some of the driest parts of the world.
Such groups are the breeding grounds in which we acquire the norms and values that equip us for social life.
Children have strong imaginations and the use of fantasy brings their ideas to life, but children may not be adept enough to realize that what they are viewing is unreal.
We do not know how old, or how large, a leatherback has to be before it can switch from a cold-blooded to a warm-blooded mode of life.
The reduced level of photosynthesis led to a massive decline in plant life of all kinds, and this caused massive starvation first of herbivores and subsequently of carnivores.
A completely different theory holds that yawning assists in the physical development of the lungs early in life, but has no remaining biological function in adults.
But, while accepting that not everything in life can be explained by Darwinian evolution, there are sound reasons for being skeptical of theories like this one, which avoid the issue of what yawning does for adults.
Support for this theory came from a study of yawning behavior in everyday life.
After 1815 improved transportation enabled more and more western farmers to escape a self-sufficient way of life and enter a national market economy.
Within 2,000 years, the human population of the region numbered in the tens of thousands, all as a result of village life and farming.
Thanks to new environmental and archaeological discoveries, we now know something about this remarkable change in local life.
To start with, it forced the population to abandon the nomad's life and become sedentary, to develop methods of storage and, often, systems of irrigation.
It would appear that the instability of the climatic conditions led populations that had originally been nomadic to settle down and develop a sedentary style of life, which led in turn to population growth and to the need to increase the amount of food available.
Many find that understanding the general nature of autobiographical memory, that is, memory for events that have occurred in one's own life, can provide some important clues to this mystery.
The development of an understanding of the self becomes evident between the first and second years of life and shows rapid elaboration in subsequent years.
A third possibility is that children will not be able to tell their own "life story" until they understand something about the general form stories take, that is, the structure of narratives.
In the period 1970 to 1986, rainfall in the area decreased from 1,000 millimeters to 650 millimeters per annum, while above-average temperatures speeded up the evapotranspiration rate (the rate at which water is lost to the atmosphere through evaporation and the processes of plant life).
Sharing and cooperation were almost certainly part of early Puebloan life, even for people living in largely independent single-household residences scattered across the landscape.
When plants first made the transition ashore more than 400 million years ago, the land was barren and desolate, inhospitable to life.
Other adaptations occurred later in the transition to terrestrial life and now wide spread but not universal among plants.
The nature of plant life in deserts is also highly dependent on the fact that they have to adapt to the prevailing aridity.
There are two general classes of vegetation: long-lived perennials, which may be succulent (water-storing) and are often dwarfed and woody, and annuals or ephemerals, which have a short life cycle and may form a fairly dense stand immediately after rain.
the political and economic life of the cities was centered on their temples, but it now seems probable that the cities had secular rulers from earliest times.
Their artistic endeavors have been preserved in paintings of wild animals, cattle, goats, humans, and scenes of daily life that extend back perhaps to 5000 B.C.
However, biologists also noted that deer sniff and lick an unfamiliar rub, which suggests that this visual mark on a small tree plays an important communication purpose in the social life of deer.
The importance of olfactory communication (using odors to communicate) in the way of life of deer was documented by a study of captive adult mule deer a few decades ago, which noted that males rubbed their foreheads on branches and twigs, especially as autumn approached.
The most recent comprehensive evaluation of early intervention programs suggests that, taken as a group, preschools programs can provide significant benefits, and that government funds invested early in life may ultimately lead to a reduction in future costs.
Species succession in plant communities, i.e., the temporal sequence of appearance and disappearance of species is dependent on events occurring at different stages in the life history of a species.
By the early twentieth century, as government modernization in a sense caught up with what had been happening in the countryside since the 1870s, the government bureaucracy intruded more and more into village life.
But the statistical averages mean little when measured against the harsh realities of peasant life.
The appearance of these sedentary societies had a major impact on the social organizations, religious beliefs, and way of life of the peoples living within their boundaries.
These rocks are then uplifted sometime in the future to form new mountain ranges, which exhibit the sedimentary layers (and the remains of life within those layers) of the earlier episodes of erosion and deposition.
He collected hundreds of different species of animals, and he saw that they were distributed in eight different depth zones, each containing its own distinct assemblage of animal life, the way zones of elevation on the side of a mountain are populated by distinct sets of plants. 
Forbes also thought he saw, as he later told the British Association, that   the number of species and individuals diminishes as we descend, pointing to a zero in the distribution of animal life as yet unvisited.
Moreover, through no fault of his own, Forbes was not particularly successful at sampling such life as did exist at the bottom of the Aegean.
As it turned out, the existence of the azoic zone had been disproved even before Forbes suggested it, and the theory continued to be contradicted regularly throughout its long and influential life.
Although he did not accept that water was the prime element, he did believe that all life originated in the sea, and he was thus one of the first to conceive of this important idea.
His goal is not just to survive his ordeals but to make sense of this life.
The problems that were faced and solved in Athens were the sharing of political power between the established aristocracy and the emerging other classes, and the adjustment of aristocratic ways of life to the ways of life of the new polls.
Cleisthenes' principal contribution to the creation of democracy at Athens was to complete the long process of weakening family and dam structures, especially among the aristocrats, and to set in their place locality-based corporations called demes, which became the point of entry for all civic and most religious life in Athens.
It was precisely this opportunity to participate in public life that provided a stimulus for the briar unfolding of classical Greek culture.
Structure has a strong influence on the animal life inhabiting a site, it forms the spatial environment within which an animal feeds, moves around, shelters, Ives, and breeds.
In many respects, such as education, occupation, and leisure activities, their life is like that of other groups that contribute to the diverse social fabric of North American culture in the twenty-first century.
The paintings generally illustrate ideas and events from the life of a mythical hero, who, after being healed by the gods, gave gifts of songs and paintings.
Similarly, a creeping glacier may gradually divide a population, or a land bridge such as the Isthmus of Panama may form and separate the marine life in the ocean waters on either side.
The focus of life was the agora, the open marketplace where assemblies could be held and where issues of the day, as well as more fundamental topics such as the purpose of government or the relationship between law and freedom, could be discussed and decisions made by individuals in person.
This implied that the city-state was based on the idea that citizens were not specialists but had multiple interests and talents    each a so-called jack-of-all-trades who could engage in many areas of life and politics.
It implied a respect for the wholeness of life and a consequent dislike of specialization.
Their worship was linked to the rituals connected with one  s progress through life  birth, marriage, and death   and with invoking protection against danger, making prophecies, and promoting healing, rather than to any code of behavior.
Even before Alexander  s time, a life spent in the service of their city-state no longer seemed ideal to Greeks The Athenian philosopher Socrates (470-399 B.C.)
It should be emphasized that the evolution of lungs and limbs was in no sense an anticipation of future life on land.
In experimenting with it, he found that it is actually quite difficult to use for drawing, and he speculates that the artists probably combined their observations from life with tracing of shapes.
Its use soon widened to document the multitudinous things and acts that are involved in daily life, from simple inventories of commodities to complicated governmental rules and regulations.
The commercial changes of the eleventh through fourteenth centuries did however, lay the economic foundation for the development of urban life and culture.
After the Roman Empire  s conquest of Britain in the first century A.D., the presence of administrators, merchants, and troops on British soil, along with the natural flow of ideas and goods from the rest of the empire, had an enormous influence on life in the British Isles.
Termites, unlike ants, have gradual metarnorphosis with only three life stage: egg, nymph, and adult.
Ants and the other social members of their order, certain bees and wasps, have complete metarnorphosis in four life stages; egg, larva, pupa, and adult.
The existence of Beringia (and the extent to which it could have supported human life) is one of the crucial pieces of evidence in the continuing debate about the likely route and date of human colonization of the New World.
