In an area where low temperatures are limiting to life, the importance of the additional heat near the surface is crucial.
Although limited to a skull, the Pakicetus fossil provides precious details on the origins of cetaceans.
The semiarid lands bordering the deserts exist in a delicate ecological balance and are limited in their potential to adjust to increased environmental pressures.
Even though early exhibitors shaped their film programs by mixing films and other entertainments together in whichever way they thought would be most attractive to audiences or by accompanying them with lectures, their creative control remained limited.
The world  s architectural structures have also been devised in relation to the objective limitations of materials.
A structural invention had to be made before the physical limitations of stone could be overcome and new architectural forms could be created.
Second, conservation has been insured by limiting times for and types of hunting.
While mineral deficiencies can limit the growth of plants, an overabundance of certain minerals can be toxic and can also limit growth.
Saline soils, which have high concentrations of sodium chloride and other salts, limit plant growth, and research continues to focus on developing salt-tolerant varieties of agricultural crops.
He thereby transformed an inefficient pump of limited use into a steam engine of a thousand uses.
Unlike in the Americas, where metallurgy was a very late and limited development, Africans had iron from a relatively early date, developing ingenious furnaces to produce the high heat needed for production and to control the amount of air that reached the carbon and iron ore necessary for making iron.
They can do only so much to represent the full complexity of the global climate and hence may give only limited information about natural variability.
Unlike formal statues that are limited to static poses of standing, sitting, and kneeling, these figures depict a wide range of actions, such as grinding grain, baking bread, producing pots, and making music, and they are shown in appropriate poses, bending and squatting as they carry out their tasks.
The high costs of converting to sound and the early limitations of sound technology were among the factors that suppressed innovations or retarded advancement in these other areas.
An annual rainfall of four inches is often used to define the limits of a desert.
Such techniques, however, have limitations.
The third, and most potent, limitation is that it is not possible to be certain that the infant's response was due to the stimulus presented or to a change from no stimulus to a stimulus.
Observational assessment techniques have become much more sophisticated, reducing the limitations just presented.
Certainly, rational appeals in advertising aimed at children are limited, as most advertisements use emotional and indirect appeals to psychological states or associations.
Such rules limit variations in accumulated material goods between pastoralist households (though they may also encourage a taste for portable goods of high value such as silks or jewelry).
The structure of the periodic table appeared to limit the number of possible elements.
The latter two sources are limited to those few areas where surface water seeps down through underground faults or fractures to reach deep rocks heated by the recent activity of molten rock material.
In the early sixteenth century the shortage of rowers was not serious because the demand for galleys was limited by a move to round ships (round-hulled ships with more cargo space), with required fewer rowers.
They include roots or root like structures, a waxy cuticle that covers the surfaces of leaves and stems and limits the evaporation of water, and pores called stomata in leaves and stems that allow gas exchange but close when water is scarce, thus reducing water loss.
Charcoal, made from wood and thus in limited supply, was replaced with coal-derived coke (substance left after coal is heated) as steam-driven bellows came into use for producing of raw iron.
Another way of countering drought is to have a limited amount of mass above ground and to have extensive root networks below ground.
Rainfall was limited, and what water there was rushed across the plain in the annual flood of melted snow.
It is a rather shallow bowl that was crudely made in a mold; hence, in only a limited number of standard sizes.
On the other hand, rainfall increased in the interior of western Africa, and the northern limit of the tsetse fly, an insect fatal to cattle, moved south.
When several individuals of the same species or of several different species depend on the same limited resource, a situation may arise that is referred to as competition.
The number of colonies in the study area was not limited by availability of suitable trees, and a clumped or regular distribution of colonies was not due to an underlying clumped or regular distribution of potential nest sites.
But Russia  s potential for growth was limited too, and in a few decades Russia would reach the barrier of inadequate energy that was already holding England back.
The steam engine of Watt and his followers was the technological advance that gave people, at least for a whild, unlimited power and allowed the invention and use of all kinds of power equipment.
The use of powerful, steam-driven bellows in blast furnaces helped iron makers switch over rapidly from limited charcoal to unlimited coke (which is made from coal) in the smelting of pig iron (the process of refining impure iron) after 1770.
However, good land may itself be limited    for example, to within the confines of a river valley.
Any optical device is limited by its resolving power.
While amphibians are poor thermoregulators, they do exercise control over their body temperature to a limited degree.
Just as on present-day Earth, the oceans of Venus limited the amount of atmospheric carbon dioxide by dissolving it in the oceans and binding it up in carbonate rocks.
Harris' antelope squirrel has a more limited range in deserts south of the Grand Canyon.
Another consequence of the limited availability of prey is that many animals have developed ways of coping with much larger food particles, relative to their own body size, than the equivalent shallower species can process.
Learning these complex signs required long training and much practice; inevitably, literacy was largely limited to a small professional class, the scribes.
