But note that porosity is not the same as permeability, which measures the ease with which water can flow through a material; this depends on the sizes of the individual cavities and the crevices linking them.
It was undoubtedly a whale that linked life on land with life at sea
The investigators theorized that about 20 million years ago, the Mediterranean was a broad seaway linked to the Atlantic by two narrow straits.
The physical bonds included the network of military garrisons, which were stationed in every province, and the network of stone-built roads that linked the provinces with Rome.
It may have developed independently, but many scholars believe that the spread of agriculture and iron throughout Africa linked it to the major centers of the Near East and Mediterranean world.
Though it may be difficult to imagine from a later perspective, a strain of critical opinion in the 1920s predicted that sound film would be a technical novelty that would soon fade from sight, just as had many previous attempts, dating well back before the First World War, to link images with recorded sound.
These forces were the rapidly expanding electronics and telecommunications companies that were developing and linking telephone and wireless technologies in the 1920s.
When an association continues long enough for two people to become linked together by a relatively stable set of expectations, it is called a relationship.
Expressive ties are social links formed when we emotionally invest ourselves in and commit ourselves to other people.
Instrumental ties are social links formed when we cooperate with other people to achieve some goal.
Similarly, changes in the infant's general level of motor activity   turning the head, blinking the eyes, crying, and so forth    have been used by researchers as visual indicators of the infant's perceptual abilities.
The intention is for the positively perceived attributes of the celebrity to be transferred to the advertised product and for the two to become automatically linked in the audience's mind.
Chicago became the region  s hub, linking the farms of the upper Midwest to New York and other eastern cities by more than 2,000 miles of track in 1855.
Their worship was linked to the rituals connected with one  s progress through life  birth, marriage, and death   and with invoking protection against danger, making prophecies, and promoting healing, rather than to any code of behavior.
It was later realized that there is a close link between El Nino and the Southern Oscillation.
In fact, the link between the two is so great that they are often referred to jointly as ENSO (El Nino-Southern Oscillation).
As many of the officials in Britain had strong links with Gaul, it is not surprising that early Roman Britain owes much to craft workers from that area.
Falls in sea level often exposed a number of important land bridges, such as those linking Alaska to northeast Asia and Britain to northwest Europe, a phenomenon with far reaching effects not only on human colonization of the globe but also on the environment as a whole-the flora and fauna of isolated or insular areas were radically and often irreversibly affected.
