In addition to other artworks, figurines representing the human female in exaggerated form have also been found at Upper Paleolithic sites.
A male bird of paradise may put himself in the limelight by displaying his spectacular plumage in the best stage setting to attract a female.
The male riflebird exploits both of these modes of signaling simultaneously in his courtship display.
The ritualized visual display communicates in close quarters when a female has approached.
A male deer makes a buck rub by stripping the bark (outer layer) of a small tree with its antlers.
Adult male deer usually produce rubs in late summer or early autumn when the outervelvet layer is being shed from their antlers.
Rubs are created about one to two months before the breeding season (the rut).Hence for a long time biologists believed that male deer used buck rubs not only to clean and polish antlers but also to provide practice for the ensuing male-to-male combat during the rut.
The importance of olfactory communication (using odors to communicate) in the way of life of deer was documented by a study of captive adult mule deer a few decades ago, which noted that males rubbed their foreheads on branches and twigs, especially as autumn approached.
A decade later another study reported that adult male white-tailed deer exhibited forehead rubbing just before and during the rut.
This forehead rubbing behavior coincides with a high level of glandular activity in the modified scent glands found on the foreheads of male deer; the glandular activity causes the forehead pelage (hairy covering) of adult males to be distinctly darker than in females or younger males.
Forehead rubbing by male deer on buck rubs presumably sends a great deal of information to other members of the same species.
Second, because only male deer rub, the buck rub and its associated chemicals indicate the sex of the deer producing the rub.
Thus, the presence of many well-marked rubs is indicative of older, higher-status males being in the general vicinity rather than simply being a crude measure of relative deer abundance in a given area.
Fresher buck rubs (less than two days old), in particular, are visited more frequently by adult females than older rubs.
In view of this behavior it has been suggested that chemicals present in fresh buck rubs may help physiologically induce and synchronize fertility in females that visit these rubs.
This would be an obvious advantage to wide-ranging deer, especially to a socially dominant buck when courting several adult females during the autumn rut.
Most are made by older males, although females and younger males (2.5 years old or less) occasionally make scrapes.
The ants prey on the adult beetles, disturb females as they lay their eggs on developing fruits, and eat many of the eggs they do manage to lay. 
High levels of physical activity and long periods of nursing, which are common among modern simple foragers, probably also contributed to low levels of female fertility if they were likewise common among ancient foragers. 
Released troops of monkeys were kept under visual observation and followed by radio tracking of 16 females.
Although the troops appeared to undergo initial problems, causing them to split up, all the tracked females settled into normal behavioral patterns. 
Entering the polls age, Athens had the traditional institutions of other Greek protodemocratic states: an assembly of adult males, an aristocratic council, and annually elected officials.
Pollen, a powdery substance, which is produced by flowering plants and contains male reproductive cells, is usually carried from plant to plant by insects or birds, but some plants rely on the wind to carry their pollen.
The worker and soldier castes of social ants, bees, and wasps consist of only females, all daughters of a single queen that mated soon after she matured and thereafter never mated again.
The worker and soldier castes of termites consist of both males and females, and the queen lives permanently with a male consort. 
