The necessary space is there, however, in many forms.
In many semiarid areas there is also a lower timberline where the forest passes into steppe or desert at its lower edge, usually because of a lack of moisture.
Firewood is the chief fuel used for cooking and heating in many countries.
The increased pressures of expanding populations have led to the removal of woody plants so that many cities and towns are surrounded by large areas completely lacking in trees and shrubs.
The mediocre design of many contemporary buildings can be traced to both clients and architects.
The arch is among the many important structural breakthroughs that have characterized architecture throughout the centuries.
The incentive of the farmers who wish to conserve water is reduced by their knowledge that many of their neighbors are profiting by using great amounts of water, and in the process are drawing down the entire region  s water supplies.
Perhaps, like many contemporary peoples, Upper Paleolithic men and women believed that the drawing of a human image could cause death or injury, and if that were indeed their belief, it might explain why human figures are rarely depicted in cave art.
Nitrogen-deficient plants exhibit many of the symptoms just described.
Speculation on the origin of these Pacific islanders began as soon as outsiders encountered them, in the absence of solid linguistic, archaeological, and biological data, many fanciful and mutually exclusive theories were devised.
Because all Polynesians, Micronesians, and many Melanesians speak Austronesian languages and grow crops derived from Southeast Asia, all these peoples most certainly derived from that region and not the New World or elsewhere.
In fact, fossil beds containing soft-bodied animals have been known for many years. 
The Burgess Shale formation also has fossils of many extinct representatives of modern animal groups.
The Cambrian explosion involved rapid evolutionary diversification, followed by the extinction of many unique animals.
Many zoologists believe that it was because so many ecological niches were available with virtually no competition from existing species.
Some fossils endured through so many millions of years that they appear in many strata, but others occur only in a few strata, and a few species had their births and extinctions within one particular stratum.
Through hearing stories with a clear beginning, middle, and ending children may learn to extract the gist of events in ways that they will be able to describe many years later.
General knowledge of categories of events such as a birthday party or a visit to the doctor's office helps older individuals encode their experiences, but again, infants and toddlers are unlikely to encode many experiences within such knowledge structures.
For many, Rome is at best the imitator and the continuator of Greece on a larger scale.
It was no accident that many leading Roman soldiers and statesmen were writers of high caliber.
It may have developed independently, but many scholars believe that the spread of agriculture and iron throughout Africa linked it to the major centers of the Near East and Mediterranean world.
The drying up of what is now the Sahara desert had pushed many peoples to the south into sub-Sahara Africa.
The valley, like many other places in Mexican and Guatemalan highlands, was rich in obsidian.
The hard volcanic stone was a resource that had been in great demand for many years, at least since the rise of the Olmecs (a people who flourished between 1200 and 400 B.C.
Moreover, recent research on obsidian tools found at Olmec sites has shown that some of the obsidian obtained by the Olmecs originated near Teotihuac  n. Teotihuac  n obsidian must have been recognized as a valuable commodity for many centuries before the great city arose.
By measuring how many of these meteorites fall to Earth over a given period of time, scientists can estimate how long it might have taken to deposit the observed amount of Ir in the boundary clay.
They were concerned that many would be   drawn to these new, refreshing   conceptions of teaching only to find that the void between the abstractions and the realities of teacher reflection is too great to bridge.
There appear to be many unexplored matters about the motivation to reflect  C for example, the value of externally motivated reflection as opposed to that of teachers who might reflect by habit. 
They could travel through the air, float in water, and lie dormant for many months. 
In a surprisingly short time, angiosperms filled many of the land areas on Hawaii that had been bare.
Ceramic products also include lead-glazed tomb models of the Han dynasty, three-color lead-glazed vessels and figures of the Tang dynasty, and Ming three-color temple ornaments, in which the motifs were outlined in a raised trail of slip  as well as the many burial ceramics produced in imitation of vessels made in materials of higher intrinsic value.
The Chinese themselves adapted many specific vessel forms from the West, such as bottles with long spouts, and designed a range of decorative patterns especially for the European market.
Because close relatives have many of the same genes, animals that harm their close relatives may in effect be destroying some of their own genes.
We all know that many more people today are right-handed than left-handed.
Much of the evidence about right-hand versus left-hand dominance comes from stencils and prints found in rock shelters in Australia and elsewhere, and in many Ice Age caves in France, Spain, and Tasmania.
In many instances, spectators in the era before recorded sound experienced elaborate aural presentations alongside movies' visual images, from the Japanese benshi (narrators) crafting multivoiced dialogue narratives to original musical compositions performed by symphony-size orchestras in Europe and the United States.
Though it may be difficult to imagine from a later perspective, a strain of critical opinion in the 1920s predicted that sound film would be a technical novelty that would soon fade from sight, just as had many previous attempts, dating well back before the First World War, to link images with recorded sound.
In 1929 the United States motion picture industry released more than 300 sound films  a rough figure, since a number were silent films with music tracks, or films prepared in dual versions, to take account of the many cinemas not yet wired for sound.
These are generally fed by groundwater springs, and many issue from limestone massifs, such as the Atlas Mountains in Morocco.
Such programs are much needed because in many arid lands there is only a vague idea of the extent of groundwater resources.
This happens in many work settings.
Their members command and dispense many of the rewards that are so vital to us and that make our lives seem worthwhile.
A particular animal typically maintains its own characteristic cycle duration with great precision for many days.
This drift has been studied extensively in many animals and in biological activities ranging from the hatching of fruit fly eggs to wheel running by squirrels.
The author George Comstock suggested that less than a quarter of children between the ages of six and eight years old understood standard disclaimers used in many toy advertisements and that disclaimers are more readily comprehended when presented in both audio and visual formats.
Advertisements for breakfast cereals have, for many years, been found to be especially fond of fantasy techniques, with almost nine out of ten including such content.
It initially surprises us that many of their cities were not built next to the rivers but instead on high terrain in rolling uplands.
Here, the horse was already becoming the animal of prestige in many regions, though sheep, goats, and cattle could also play a vital role.
The remarkable mobility and range of pastoral societies explain, in part, why so many linguists have argued that the Indo-European languages began their astonishing expansionist career not among farmers in Anatolia (present-day Turkey), but among early pastoralists from Inner Eurasia.
It works for elephants, for whales, and, perhaps, it worked for many of the larger dinosaurs.
Cases in which many species become extinct within a geologically short interval of time are called mass extinctions.
The fossil record shows at least five mass extinctions in which many families of marine organisms died out.
The intense heat of the impact would produce heat-shocked quartz in many types of rock.
The largest galleys had as many as 50 oarsmen Since they had relatively shallow hulls, they were unstable when driven by sail or when on rough water: hence they were unsuitable for the voyage to the East.
The reverse process brought young men to Britain, where many continued to live after their 20 to 25 years of service, and this added to the cosmopolitan Roman character of the frontier population.
Succession is influenced by many factors: the nature of the soil, exposure to sun and wind, regularity of precipitation, chance colonizations, and many other random processes.
Though it is true that many animals are strictly associated with certain plants, it is misleading to speak of a "spruce-moose biome," for example, because there is no internal cohesion to their association as in an organism.
For his research, Agassiz visited many places in the northern parts of Europe and North America, from the mountains of Scandinavia and New England to the rolling hills of the American Midwest.
From this analysis of marine sediments, geologists have learned that there were many shorter, more regular cycles of glaciation and deglaciation than geologists had recognized from the glacial drift of the continents alone.
As a result, many Americans were an inveterately restless, rootless, and ambitious people.
Many complex factors led to the adoption of the new economies, not only at Abu Hureyra, but at many other locations such as 'Ain Ghazal, also in Syria, where goat toe bones showing the telltale marks of abrasion caused by foot tethering (binding) testify to early herding of domestic stock.
When one considers the many ways by which organisms are completely destroyed after death, it is remarkable that fossils are as common as they are.
In many marine creatures, however, the skeleton is composed of a mineral variety of calcium carbonate called aragonite.
However, in many places (for example, California, Hawaii, the Philippines, Japan, Mexico, the rift valleys of Africa)the resource is potentially so large that its future will depend on the economics of production.
However, it should be kept in mind that many societies that knew of agriculture more or less consciously avoided it.
Spartina modifies tidal mudflats, turning them into high marshes inhospitable to the many fish and waterfowl that depend on the mudflats.
Little success has been reported in New Zealand and England; Washington State  s management program has tried many of these methods and is presently using the herbicide glyphosphate to control its spread.
Portraiture, once a luxury for the privileged few, was suddenly well within the reach of many more people.
After all, the Sun has many more atoms of any element, say iron, than does a meteorite specimen, but the ratios of iron to silicon in the two kinds of matter might be comparable.
The simple motifs found at Panaramitee are common to many rock-art sites across Australia.
While accepting that this sequence fits the archaeological profile of those sites, which were occupied continuously over many thousands of years a number of writers have warned that the underlying assumption of such a sequence  a development from the simple and the geometric to the complex and naturalistic  obscures the cultural continuities in Aboriginal Australia, in which geometric symbolism remains fundamentally important.
However, there are many other changes that affect respiration when asleep.
Around Sand Canyon, for example, populations grew from 5 -12 people per square kilometer in the tenth century to as many as 30 - 50 by the 1200s.
Images of the Martian surface reveal many hundreds of volcanoes.
Most of the largest volcanoes are associated with the Tharsis bulge, but many smaller ones are found in the northern plains.
For years historians have sought to identify crucial elements in the eighteenth-century rise in industry, technology, and economic power Known as the Industrial Revolution, and many give prominence to the problem of energy.
Also, the availability of jobs in railway construction attracted many rural laborers accustomed to seasonal and temporary employment.
When the work was completed, many moved to other construction jobs or to factory work in cities and towns, where they became part of an expanding working class.
Despite these conditions, however, many varieties of plants and animals have adapted to deserts in a number of ways.
(Trading was important, as so many raw materials, the semiprecious stones for the decoration of the temples, timbers for roofs, and all metals, had to be imported.)
For some unknown reason, many were discarded, often still intact, and thousands have been found all over the Near East.
A variety of documentation indicates that certain goods, once made by a family member as one of many duties, were later made by skilled artisans.
A glance at a map of the Pacific Ocean reveals that there are many islands far out at sea that are actually volcanoes  many no longer active, some overgrown with coral  that originated from activity at points in the interior of the Pacific Plate that forms the Pacific seafloor.
Like many other island groups, they form a chain.
The plumes apparently originate at great depths, perhaps as deep as the boundary between the core and the mantle, and many have been active for a very long time.
This opens up space for many other organisms.
The experiments with domestication probably occurred in many places, as people living in ever-drier environments cast around for more predictable food supplies.
Thus, the presence of many well-marked rubs is indicative of older, higher-status males being in the general vicinity rather than simply being a crude measure of relative deer abundance in a given area.
In the case of animals it is usually food; in the case of forest plants it may be light; in the case of substrate inhabitants it may be space, as in many shallow-water bottom-dwelling marine organisms.
However, like many later experts, this one would have suffered from an inability to see into the future.
Unfortunately this early plant experienced the problem common to many forms of renewable energy: the flow in the Wey River was unreliable, and the waterwheel was soon replaced by a steam engine.
The capacity of individual power stations, many of them hydro plants, rose from a few kilowatts to over a megawatt in less than a decade.
Thus, many species have evolved clear signals to delineate playfulness.
Similar exhaustive studies are required for many different kinds of organisms from many different periods.
While many programs designed for preschoolers focus primarily on social and emotional factors, some are geared mainly toward promoting cognitive gains and preparing preschoolers for the formal instruction they will experience when they start kindergarten.
Such conditions prevail throughout much of northern South America and Cuba, but many Central American savannas as well as coastal areas of Brazil and the island of Trinidad do not fit this pattern.
In many characteristics, savanna soils are similar to those of some rain forests, though more extreme.
For example, savanna soils, like many rain forest soils, are typically oxisols(dominated by certain oxide minerals) and ultisols(soils containing no calcium carbonate), with a high acidity and notably low concentrations of such minerals as phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, and potassium, while aluminum levels are high.
A fertile, plowed field is rapidly invaded by a large variety of weeds, whereas a neighboring construction site from which the soil has been compacted or removed to expose a coarse, infertile parent material may remain virtually free of vegetation for many months or even years despite receiving the same input of seeds as the plowed field. 
For example, as many as 1,125 viable seeds per square meter were found in a 100-year-old Douglas fir/western hemlock forest in coastal British Columbia.
An additional benefit was that the sediment carried by the river waters deposited nutrients in the soil, thus enabling the farmer to cultivate a single plot of ground for many years without moving to a new location.
In popular language this was the era   when dinosaurs ruled Earth,   when a wide variety of reptile species occupying many ecological niches.
This time was also marked by changes in many other types of organisms.
For many years scientists assumed that a cooling of the climate was responsible, with dinosaurs being particularly vulnerable because, like modern reptiles, they were ectothermic (dependent on environmental heat, or cold-blooded).
However, by the early 1770s, many of the Savery engines and hundreds of the Newcomen engines were operating successfully, though inefficiently, in English and Scottish mines. 
That we now have an abundance of the proof that was called for was established when Barbara Bentley reviewed the relevant evidence in 1977, and since then many more observations and experiments have provided still further proof that ants benefit plants.
The ants prey on the adult beetles, disturb females as they lay their eggs on developing fruits, and eat many of the eggs they do manage to lay. 
By noting that individual floods deposit only thin layers of sediment, he was able to conclude that the Nile Delta had taken many thousands of years to build up.
Hutton's concept represented a remarkable insight because it unified many individual phenomena and observations into a conceptual picture of Earth  s history.
This succession is different from typical terrestrial ecological succession in which various plants replace one another until finally a so-called climax community develops, which persists for many years.
Although each cell secretes a minute amount of toxin, the massive dinoflagellate numbers cause the toxin to reach concentrations that kill many creatures.
In fact, for mature soils in many parts of the world, the predominant type of natural vegetation is considered the most important direct influence on soil characteristics.
These include many important agricultural crops, such as alfalfa, clover, soybeans, peas, and peanuts.
While many other observers and thinkers had laid the groundwork for science, Thales ( circa 624 B.C.E-ca 547 B.C.E.
It is possible for anyone to create   ideas   about the nature and structure of the universe, for instance, and many times these ideas can be so consistent and elaborately structured, or just so apparently obvious, that they can be persuasive to many people.
In a fragmented landscape where many populations and habitats are isolated from others, translocations can play an effective role in conservation strategies; they can increase the number of existing populations or increase the size, genetic diversity, and demographic balance of a small population, consequently increasing its chances of survival. 
Translocation clearly has a role in the recovery of species that have substantially declined and is the most likely method by which many sedentary species can recover all or part of their former range.
This is partly because many translocations have not been strictly for conservation; neither have they been official nor legal, let alone scientific in their approach.
The light microscope cannot resolve detail finer than 0.2 micrometers, about the size of the smallest bacterium; consequently, no matter how many times its image of such a bacterium is magnified, the light microscope cannot show the details of the cell  s internal structure.
They have also expanded into many areas lacking any agriculture other than grazing and into places without forests or permanent streams.
On the negative side, opponents of transgenic crops suggest that there are many questions that need to be answered before transgenic crops are grown on a large scale.
This scenario is not likely to occur in many instances because there are no weedy relatives growing near the crop plant.
Fortunately, however, many tablets survived because they were accidentally fired when the buildings they were stored in burned. 
Forest and shrubland burning appears to have reduced the prime habitat of many moa species.
As a result, many natural ponderosa pine forests have a parklike appearance, with low fuel loads, big trees spaced apart, and a relatively clear understory.
Never before, or since, have so many people been involved in the serious business of self-govemance.
The tropics contain many more species overall than an equivalent area at the higher latitudes.
This seems to be true for many different groups of animals and plants.
Additionally, in many speeds the tolerance boundaries are flexible and can change as a result of acclimatization (long-term exposure to particular conditions).
Seasonal avoidance behavior is extremely important in many amphibians.
In many respects, such as education, occupation, and leisure activities, their life is like that of other groups that contribute to the diverse social fabric of North American culture in the twenty-first century.
Bartering was a basic trade mechanism for many thousands of years; often sporadic and usually based on notions of reciprocity, it involved the mutual exchange of commodities or objects between individuals or groups.
Trade, nevertheless, was probably one of many variables that led to the emergence of palace economies in Minoan Crete.
He suggested that the lowland Mayan environment was deficient in many vital resources, among them obsidian, salt, stone for grinding maize, and many luxury materials.
A key event in the origin of many species is the separation of a population with its gene pool (all of the genes in a population at any one time) from other populations of the same species, thereby preventing population interbreeding.
In the formation of many species, the initial isolation of a population seems to have been a geographic barrier.
The passage of wind-blown tree pollen is also not hindered by such barriers, and the seeds of many plants may be carried back and forth on animals.
These birds have many similarities but differ in their feeding habits and their beak type, which is correlated with what they eat.
Today each Galapagos island has multiple species of finches, with as many as ten on some islands.
It wiped out many kinds of plankton in the ocean and many marine organisms that lived on the plankton at the base of the food chain.
These included a variety of clams and snails, and especially the ammonites, a group of shelled squidlike creatures that dominated the Mesozoic seas and had survived many previous mass extinctions.
Some features formed when the crust cracked, flooding many of the craters with water from the interior.
This implied that the city-state was based on the idea that citizens were not specialists but had multiple interests and talents    each a so-called jack-of-all-trades who could engage in many areas of life and politics.
There were getting to be too many persons to know, an easily observable community of interests was being replaced by a multiplicity of interests.
While the warm-water countercurrent usually lasts for two months or less, there are occasions when the disruption to the normal flow lasts for many months.
Scientists try to document as many past El Nino events as possible by piecing together bits of historical evidence, such as sea-surface temperature records, daily observations of atmospheric pressure and rainfall, fisheries   records from South America, and the writings of Spanish colonists dating back to the fifteenth century.
However, many problems that faced early land plants were not applicable to the first tetrapods The ancestors of these animals already had a circulation system, and they were mobile, so that they could move to water to drink.
In recent times the British artist David Hockney has published his investigations into the secret use of the camera obscura, claiming that for up to 400 years, many of Western art  s great masters probably used the device to produce almost photographically realistic details in their paintings.
From an artist  s point of view, Hockney observed that a camera obscura compresses the complicated forms of a three-dimensional scene into two-dimensional shapes that can easily be traced and also increases the contrast between light and dark, leading to the chiaroscuro effect seen in many of these paintings.
Seagrass beds under the influence of strong currents tend to have many of the lighter particles, including seagrass debris, moved out, whereas beds in weak current areas accumulate lighter detrital material.
Between 25,000 and 10,000 years ago, Siberia, the Bering Land Bndge, and Alaska shared many environmental characteristics.
The recognition that many aspects of the modem flora and fauna were present on both sides of the Bering Sea as remnants of the ice-age landscape led to this region being named Beringia.
Investigations of the plants found grasses, sedges, mosses, and many other varieties in a nearly continuous cover, as was predicted by Guthrie.
For the relatively few dominant tree species that make up temperate forests, where there are many individuals of the same species within pollen range, this is quite a safe gamble.
Indeed, pollen can travel many thousands of kilometers at high altitudes.
In the near-surface layers, there are many large, fast carnivores as well as an immense variety of planktonic animals, which feed on plankton (small, free-floating plants or animals) by filtering them from currents of water that pass through a specialized anatomical structure These filter-feeders thrive in the well-illuminated surface waters because oceans have so many very small organisms, from bacteria to large algae to larval crustaceans.
Even though mean levels may mask much higher local concentrations, it is still the case that many deep-sea animals are exposed to conditions in which a normal filter-feeder would starve
Another consequence of the limited availability of prey is that many animals have developed ways of coping with much larger food particles, relative to their own body size, than the equivalent shallower species can process.
Scientific evidence to illuminate these ideas has been slow in coming, and many shadows remain.
The flooding of Britain with red-gloss pottery form Gaul (modern-day France), decorated with scenes from Classical mythology, probably brought many into contact with the styles and artistic concepts of the Greco-Roman world for the first time, whether or not the symbolism was understood.
As many of the officials in Britain had strong links with Gaul, it is not surprising that early Roman Britain owes much to craft workers from that area.
The metabolism of so many termites and of the fungus that they grow in their gardens as food helps keep the interior of the nest warm and supplies some moisture to the air in the nest.
Its many occupants require over 250 quarts of oxygen (more than 1,200 quarts of aire) per day.
The interior consists of a large central core in which the fungus is grown, below it is   cellar   of empty space, above it is an   attic   of empty space, and within the ridges on the outer wall of the nest, there are many small tunnels that connect the cellar and the attic.
This technological advance took many forms: one was the continual introduction from the south of earlier-ripening varieties of rice, which made possible double-cropping (the production of two harvests per year from one field).
The jaw joints of many advanced herbivores, such as cows, lie at a different level than the tooth row, allowing transverse tearing, shredding, and compression of plant material.
However, since many nations and governments wanted their own presses, the trade quickly became international.
Before printing, only the very largest libraries, of which there were a dozen in Europe, had as many as 600 books.
As a result, many small, independent farmers were forced to sell out simply because they could not compete.
