Unfortunately, the cost of water obtained through any of these schemes would increase pumping costs at least tenfold, making the cost of irrigated agricultural products from the region uncompetitive on the national and international markets.
The numbers of deer have fluctuated markedly since the entry of Europeans into Puget Sound country.
We might expect that early artistic efforts would be crude, but the cave paintings of Spain and southern France show a marked degree of skill.
He believes that as far back as 30,000 B.C., hunters may have used a system of notation, engraved on bone and stone, to mark phases of the Moon.
It may be in a pool too small or too far from a potential market to justify the expense of drilling.
The geologic timescale is marked by significant geologic and biological events, including the origin of Earth about 4.6 billion years ago, the origin of life about 3.5 billion years ago, the origin of eukaryotic life-forms (living things that have cells with true nuclei) about 1.5 billion years ago, and the origin of animals about 0.6 billion years ago.
The last event marks the beginning of the Cambrian period.
But as more and more accumulations of strata were cataloged in more and more places, it became clear that the sequences of rocks sometimes differed from region to region and that no rock type was ever going to become a reliable time marker throughout the world.
Even without the problem of regional differences, rocks present a difficulty as unique time markers.
Fossils are thus identifying markers for particular periods in Earth's history.
It had over 2,000 apartment complexes, a great market, a large number of industrial workshops, an administrative center, a number of massive religious edifices, and a regular grid pattern of streets and buildings.
), and it apparently had a secure market.
The thriving obsidian operation, for example, would necessitate more miners, additional manufacturers of obsidian tools, and additional traders to carry the goods to new markets.
The most influential proponent of the coastal migration route has been Canadian archaeologist Knut Fladmark.
Fladmark  s hypothesis received additional support form from the fact that the greatest diversity in native American languages occurs along the west coast of the Americas, suggesting that this region has been settled the longest. 
Fladmark and other believe that the first human colonization of America occurred by boat along the Northwest Coast during the very late Ice Age, possibly as early as 14,000 years ago.
Remarkably resistant to the vicissitudes of ocean travel, they can survive prolonged immersion in saltwater when they come to rest on warm beaches and the conditions are favorable, the seed coats soften.
The Chinese themselves adapted many specific vessel forms from the West, such as bottles with long spouts, and designed a range of decorative patterns especially for the European market.
They had access to urban merchants, markets, and trade routes.
Other areas under investigation include magnetism, landmarks, coastlines, sonar, and even smells.
Fractures and other cut marks are another source of evidence.
The shift from silent to sound film at the end of the 1920s marks, so far, the most important transformation in motion picture history.
To be sure, their evaluation of the technical flaws in 1920s sound experiments was not so far off the mark, yet they neglected to take into account important new forces in the motion picture field that, in a sense, would not take no for an answer.
This finding was even more marked for heavy viewers of television.
The remarkable mobility and range of pastoral societies explain, in part, why so many linguists have argued that the Indo-European languages began their astonishing expansionist career not among farmers in Anatolia (present-day Turkey), but among early pastoralists from Inner Eurasia.
Nor have merchants and artisans ever had much tolerance for aristocratic professions of moral superiority, favoring instead an egalitarian ethic of the open market, where steady hard work, the loyalty of one's fellows, and entrepreneurial skill make all the difference.
Other dimensions along which the two groups differ markedly are density and composition.
While some European countries, such as England and Germany, began to industrialize in the eighteenth century, the Netherlands and the Scandinavian countries of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden developed later.
At the beginning of the nineteenth century, Denmark and Norway had fewer than 1 million people, while Sweden and the Netherlands had fewer than 2.5 million inhabitants.
All exhibited moderate growth rates in the course of the century (Denmark the highest and Sweden the lowest), but all more than doubled in population by 1900.
Denmark was in between but closer to the Netherlands.
Denmark also had an admirable commercial history, particularly with respect to traffic through the Sound (the strait separating Denmark and Sweden).
In 1857, in return for a payment of 63 million kronor from other commercial nations, Denmark abolished the Sound toll dues, the fees it had collected since 1497 for the use of the Sound.
As small countries dependent on foreign markets, they followed a liberal trade policy in the main, though a protectionist movement developed in Sweden.
In Denmark and Sweden agricultural reforms took place gradually from the late eighteenth century through the first half of the nineteenth, resulting in a new class of peasant landowners with a definite market orientation.
The key factor in the success of these countries (along with high literacy, which contributed to it) was their ability to adapt to the international division of labor determined by the early industrializers and to stake out areas of specialization in international markets for which they were especially well suited.
In the early twentieth century, Denmark exported 63 percent of its agricultural production: butter, pork products, and eggs.
After 1815 improved transportation enabled more and more western farmers to escape a self-sufficient way of life and enter a national market economy.
Certain characteristics of American society help to explain this remarkable migration.
Transportation was becoming less of a problem for those who wished to move west and for those who hand farm surpluses to send to market.
Livestock could be driven across the mountains, but the cost of transporting bulky grains in this fashion was several times greater than their value in eastern markets.
Two other developments presaged the end of the era of turnpikes and started a transportation revolution that resulted in increased regional specialization and the growth of a national market economy.
Eventually, the western states diverted much of their produce from the rivers to the Erie Canal, a shorter route to eastern markets.
Thanks to new environmental and archaeological discoveries, we now know something about this remarkable change in local life.
Many complex factors led to the adoption of the new economies, not only at Abu Hureyra, but at many other locations such as 'Ain Ghazal, also in Syria, where goat toe bones showing the telltale marks of abrasion caused by foot tethering (binding) testify to early herding of domestic stock.
When one considers the many ways by which organisms are completely destroyed after death, it is remarkable that fossils are as common as they are.
Dutch agriculture was modernized and commercialized new crops and agricultural techniques raised levels of production so that they were in line with market demands, and cheap grain was imported annually from the Baltic region in large quantities.
The produce was then transported by water to markets in the cities, where the consumption of fruit and vegetables was no longer restricted to the wealthy.
Although the remarkable antiquity of Australia  s rock art is now established, the sequences and meanings of its images have been widely debated.
The slowing down of water renewal leads to a chain of further consequences; it causes dissolved chemicals to become increasingly concentrated, and this, in turn, has a marked effect on all living things in the lake.
Gradually, Venice's role as a storage and distribution center for spices and silk, dyes cotton, and gold decayed, and by the early seventeenth century Venice had lost its monopoly in markets such as France and southern Germany.
The evolutionary history of plants has been marked by a series of adaptations.
As transportation improved, distant and larger markets within the nation could be reached, thereby encouraging the development of larger factories to keep pace with increasing sales.
It contained a number of channels lined by a sequence of holes, about 50 centimeters deep, all showing burn marks and filled with ashes.
The Saharan people left a remarkable record of their lives painted on the walls of caves deep in the desert.
However, biologists also noted that deer sniff and lick an unfamiliar rub, which suggests that this visual mark on a small tree plays an important communication purpose in the social life of deer.
Thus, the presence of many well-marked rubs is indicative of older, higher-status males being in the general vicinity rather than simply being a crude measure of relative deer abundance in a given area.
The pottery of ancient Romans is remarkable in several ways.
The growth of the electric-power industry was the result of a remarkable series of scientific discoveries and developments in electrotechnology during the nineteenth century, but significant changes in what we might now call hydro (water) technology also played their part.
They set a time to go to work, to open the market, to close the market, to leave work, and finally a time to put out fires and got to sleep.
From the start, however, the towns and cities took equal hours as their standard, and the public clocks installed in town halls and market squares became the very symbol of a new, secular municipal authority.
The clock provided the punctuation marks for group activity, while enabling individuals to order their own work (and that of others) so as to enhance productivity.
Evidence from other studies suggests that exclusion of fire results in markedly decreased plant-species richness, often with an increase in tree density.
Under these conditions, it made good sense to thousands of peasant families to in effect work full-time at what they had been able to do only part-time previously because of the requirement to work for the government: grow rice for the marketplace. 
Aggressive species apparently mark prospective nest sites with pheromones, chemical substances secreted by some animals for communication with other members of their species.
In other instances, such as the Indus River Valley, the cities lacked a royal precinct and the ostentatious palaces that marked their contemporaries elsewhere.
Farmers along the tracks began to specialize in corps that they could market in distant locations.
Commercial agriculture transformed this remarkable treeless environment.
This time was also marked by changes in many other types of organisms.
Most were made for sale on the open market, and cities boasted special souks(markets) where books were bought and sold.
The mosque of Marrakech in Morocco is known as the Kutubiyya, or Booksellers   Mosque, after the adjacent market.
Hutton's concept represented a remarkable insight because it unified many individual phenomena and observations into a conceptual picture of Earth  s history.
In addition to the marked changes in abundance observed in phytoplankton over the course of a year, there is also a marked change in species composition.
Considering that seasonal succession is most often and clearly seen in temperate seas, which have a marked change in temperature during a year, temperature has been suggested as a cause.
To determine whether this was true, Kettlewell released thousands of light and dark moths (each marked with a paint spot) into rural and industrialized areas.
This often led to effects that looked odd from a traditional standpoint but that became hallmarks of modern architecture for precisely this reason.
Remarkably, versions of Gilgamesh span 1,500 years, between 2100 B.C.E and 600 B.C.E., making the story the epic of an entire civilization.
Intricate market networks channeled supplies along well-defined routes.
There may or may not have been a market organization.
The K-T event marked the end of the marine reptiles, such as the mosasaurs and the plesiosaurs, which were the largest creatures that had ever lived in the seas and which ruled the seas long before whales evolved.
Alexander the Great took his Greek armies to the east and in only a few years completed his creation of an empire out of much of southwest Asia In the new empire, barriers to trade and the movement of peoples were removed; markets were put in touch with one another.
The focus of life was the agora, the open marketplace where assemblies could be held and where issues of the day, as well as more fundamental topics such as the purpose of government or the relationship between law and freedom, could be discussed and decisions made by individuals in person.
This script consists of simple shapes, basically just wedge shapes and lines that could easily be incised in soft clay with a reed or wooden stylus; scholars have dubbed it cuneiform from the wedge-shaped marks (cunei in Latin) that are its hallmark Although the ingredients are merely wedges and lines, there are hundreds of combinations of these basic forms that stand for different sounds or words.
One remarkable aspect of this change was that the commercial classes constituted a small part of the total population  never more than 10 percent.
Supremacy was accentuated by the unyielding straight lines of both individual buildings and planned settlements since these too provided a marked contrast with the natural curvilinear shapes dominant in the native realm.
mark the position of the shoreline at a time of maximum inundation by the sea (6,500-5,500 years ago), when, through tectonic movement, the sea was three to five meters higher in relation to the contemporary landmass of Japan than at present.
Beginning in the 1770  s, it enjoyed a boom in canal building, which helped make its domestic market more accessible.
Because water transportation was the cheapest means of carrying goods to market, canals reduced prices and thus increased consumer demand.
Dutch peasant farmers were known throughout Europe for their agricultural innovations, but as British markets and opportunities grew, the English quickly learned from them.
