In lowland country almost any spot on the ground may overlie what was once the bed of a river that has since become buried by soil; if they are now below the water  s upper surface (the water table), the gravels and sands of the former riverbed, and its sandbars, will be saturated with groundwater. 
This is because the gaps among the original grains are often not totally plugged with cementing chemicals; also, parts of the original grains may become dissolved by percolating groundwater, either while consolidation is taking place or at any time afterwards.
The relative amount of these two kinds of water varies greatly from one kind of rock or sediment to another, even though their porosities may be the same.
The process perceived by these anthropologists may be summarized briefly.
Stories (myths) may then grow up around a ritual.
Performers may wear costumes and masks to represent the mythical characters or supernatural forces in the rituals or in accompanying celebrations.
As a person becomes more sophisticated, its conceptions of supernatural forces and causal relationships may change.
As a result, it may abandon or modify some rites.
But the myths that have grown up around the rites may continue as part of the group  s oral tradition and may even come to be acted out under conditions divorced from these rites.
When this occurs, the first step has been taken toward theater as an autonomous activity, and thereafter entertainment and aesthetic values may gradually replace the former mystical and socially efficacious concerns. 
Species of birch, for example, may occur at the timberline in parts of the Himalayas.
Various environmental factors may play a role.
Wind velocity also increases with altitude and may cause serious stress for trees, as is made evident by the deformed shapes at high altitudes.
Some scientists have proposed that the presence of increasing levels of ultraviolet light with elevation may play a role, while browsing and grazing animals like the ibex may be another contributing factor.
On land, where it probably bred and gave birth, Ambulocetus may have moved around very much like a modern sea lion.
In other cases, the finer particles may be removed, while the sand-sized particles are accumulated to form mobile hills or ridges of sand. 
The process may be accelerated in subsequent decades if global warming resulting from air pollution seriously increases. 
In wet periods, the land may be able to respond to these stresses.
In areas where considerable soil still remains, though, a rigorously enforced program of land protection and cover-crop planting may make it possible to reverse the present deterioration of the surface. 
Genetic engineering also may provide a partial solution, as new strains of drought-resistant crops continue to be developed.
Whatever the final answer to the water crisis may be, it is evident that within the High Plains, irrigation water will never again be the abundant, inexpensive resource it was during the agricultural boom years of the mid-twentieth century.
An ecologist who studies a pond today may well find it relatively unchanged in a year  s time.
Individual fish may be replaced, but the number of fish will tend to be the same from one year to the next.
Deer may move from high-elevation browse areas in summer down to the lowland areas in late fall.
But painting may be even older than that.
The early Australians may have painted on the walls of rock shelters and cliff faces at least 30,000 years ago, and maybe as much as 60,000 years ago. 
In addition, the paintings mostly portray animals that the painters may have feared the most because of their size, speed, natural weapons such as tusks and horns, and the unpredictability of their behavior.
He believes that as far back as 30,000 B.C., hunters may have used a system of notation, engraved on bone and stone, to mark phases of the Moon.
The organic matter may partially decompose, using up the dissolved oxygen in the sediment.
As muddy sediments are pressed together, the gas and small droplets of oil may be squeezed out of the mud and may move into sandy layers nearby.
Water or steam may be pumped down adjacent wells to help push the oil out.
It may be in a pool too small or too far from a potential market to justify the expense of drilling.
Offshore platforms may also lose oil, creating oil slicks that drift ashore and foul the beaches, harming the environment.
Sometimes, the ground at an oil field may subside as oil is removed.
They may be herbs, shrubs, or trees.
Many are found in tropical and subtropical areas of the world, where accumulation of high concentrations of metals may afford some protection against plant-eating insects and microbial pathogens.
Limestone may be found in the Cambrian or  300 million years later  in the Jurassic strata, but a trilobite  the ubiquitous marine arthropod that had its birth in the Cambrian  will never be found in Jurassic strata, nor a dinosaur in the Cambrian.
While such repression may occur, people cannot remember ordinary events from the infant and toddler periods either.
Maturation of the frontal lobes of the brain continues throughout early childhood, and this part of the brain may be critical for remembering particular episodes in ways that can be retrieved later.
The brain  s level of physiological maturation may support these types of memories, but not ones requiring explicit verbal descriptions. 
Hearing and telling stories about events may help children store information in ways that will endure into later childhood and adulthood.
Through hearing stories with a clear beginning, middle, and ending children may learn to extract the gist of events in ways that they will be able to describe many years later.
Physiological immaturity may be part of why infants and toddlers do not form extremely enduring memories, even when they hear stories that promote such remembering in preschoolers.
Hearing the stories may lead preschoolers to encode aspects of events that allow them to form memories they can access as adults.
Conversely, improved encoding of what they hear may help them better understand and remember stories and thus make the stories more useful for remembering future events.
The source of Roman obsession with unity and cohesion may well have lain in the pattern of Rome  s early development.
It may have developed independently, but many scholars believe that the spread of agriculture and iron throughout Africa linked it to the major centers of the Near East and Mediterranean world.
The diffusion of agriculture and later of iron was accompanied by a great movement of people who may have carried these innovations.
Their migration may have been set in motion by an increase in population caused by a movement of peoples fleeing the desiccation, or drying up, of the Sahara.
Still, the process is uncertain, and peaceful migration  or simply rapid demographic growth  may have also caused the Bantu explosion. 
Such success may have attracted immigrants to Teotihuac  n. In addition, Teotihuac  n  s elite may have consciously attempted to attract new inhabitants.
Teotihuac  n may have achieved some religious significance and its shrine (or shrines) may have served as an additional population magnet.
Some scientists speculate that Mars may have enjoyed an extended early Period during which rivers, lakes, and perhaps even oceans adorned its surface.
A 2003 Mars Global Surveyor image shows what mission specialists think may be a delta  a fan-shaped network of channels and sediments where a river once flowed into a larger body of water, in this case a lake filling a crater in the southern highlands.
A computer-generated view of the Martian north polar region shows the extent of what may have been an ancient ocean covering much of the northern lowlands.
The answer may be that virtually all the water on Mars is now locked in the permafrost layer under the surface, with more contained in the planet  s polar caps.
Vast areas along the coast may have been deglaciated beginning around 16,000 years ago, possibly providing a coastal corridor for the movement of plants, animals, and humans sometime between 13,000 and 14,000 years ago. 
The most recent geologic evidence indicates that it may have been possible for people to colonize ice-free regions along the continental shelf that were still exposed by the lower sea level between13,000 and 14,000 years ago.
Because of the barrier of ice to the east, the Pacific Ocean to the west, and populated areas to the north, there may have been a greater impetus for people to move in a southerly direction.
The function and status of ceramics in China varied from dynasty to dynasty, so they may be utilitarian, burial, trade-collectors', or even ritual objects, according to their quality and the era in which they were made.
Just as painted designs on Greek pots may seem today to be purely decorative, whereas in fact they were carefully and precisely worked out so that at the time, their meaning was clear, so it is with Chinese pots.
To twentieth-century eyes, Chinese pottery may appear merely decorative, yet to the Chinese the form of each object and its adornment had meaning and significance.
They can do only so much to represent the full complexity of the global climate and hence may give only limited information about natural variability.
Furthermore, one sensory ability may back up another.
These higher-frequency sounds do not travel as far, and so may better conceal the individuals producing them, who are especially vulnerable to predators in their ground nests.
Because close relatives have many of the same genes, animals that harm their close relatives may in effect be destroying some of their own genes.
Though it may be difficult to imagine from a later perspective, a strain of critical opinion in the 1920s predicted that sound film would be a technical novelty that would soon fade from sight, just as had many previous attempts, dating well back before the First World War, to link images with recorded sound.
In Europe it took a little longer, mainly because there were more small producers for whom the costs of sound were prohibitive, and in other parts of the world problems with rights or access to equipment delayed the shift to sound production for a few more years (though cinemas in major cities may have been wired in order to play foreign sound films).
The desert sections of long rivers respond several months after rain has fallen outside the desert, so that peak flows may be in the dry season.
Large quantities of water may also be stored in limestones when joints and cracks have been enlarged to form cavities.
Most limestone and sandstone aquifers are deep and extensive but may contain groundwaters that are not being recharged.
The rate of movement may be very slow: in the Indus plain, the movement of saline (salty) groundwaters has still not reached equilibrium after 70 years of being tapped.
Occasionally, this may mean working with instead of against competitors.
The disorienting effects of this mismatch between external time cues and internal schedules may persist, like our jet lag, for several days or weeks until certain cues such as the daylight/darkness cycle reset the organism's clock to synchronize with the daily rhythm of the new environment.
First, the observation may be unreliable in that two or more observers may not agree that the particular response occurred, or to what degree it occurred.
The infant may be responding to aspects of the stimulus different than those identified by the investigator.
The second technique relies on evoked potentials, which are electrical brain responses that may be related to a particular stimulus because of where they originate.
Claims such as "the best" or "better than" can be subjective and misleading; even adults may be unsure as to their meaning.
For example, the claim that breakfast cereal has a health benefit may be accompanied by the disclaimer "when part of a nutritionally balanced breakfast."
However, research has shown that children often have difficulty understanding disclaimers: children may interpret the phrase "when part of a nutritionally balanced breakfast" to mean that the cereal is required as a necessary part of a balanced breakfast.
Children have strong imaginations and the use of fantasy brings their ideas to life, but children may not be adept enough to realize that what they are viewing is unreal.
Such rules limit variations in accumulated material goods between pastoralist households (though they may also encourage a taste for portable goods of high value such as silks or jewelry).
A warm-blooded turtle may seem to be a contradiction in terms.
A leatherback may be able to pick up some body heat by basking at the surface; its dark, almost black body color may help it to absorb solar radiation.
Muscular activity helps, too, and an actively swimming green turtle may be 7  C (12.6  F) warmer than the waters it swims through.
Each mass extinction may have had a different cause.
The possibility that mass extinctions may recur periodically has given rise to such hypotheses as that of a companion star with a long-period orbit deflecting other bodies from their normal orbits, making some of them fall to Earth as meteors and causing widespread devastation upon impact.
Two percent may be a deceiving figure, however, since over 80 percent of the world  s freshwater is locked up as ice in glaciers, with the majority of it in Antarctica.
When snowfalls on high mountains or in polar regions, it may become part of the glacial system.
Here water may be stored in ice form for hundreds or even hundreds of thousands of years before being released again into the liquid water system as meltwater.
The explanation may be that the terrestrial planets were once much larger and richer in these materials but eventually lost them because of these bodies' relative closeness to the Sun, which meant that their temperatures were relatively high.
A color or pattern that is relatively indistinct in one kind of light may be quite conspicuous in another.
This may require moving to different parts of the forest at different times of the day or under different weather conditions, or it may be achieved by changing color according to the changing light conditions.
A male bird of paradise may put himself in the limelight by displaying his spectacular plumage in the best stage setting to attract a female.
It is difficult to imagine how this could affect the cattle, but the relationship may help or hinder them in some way not yet recognized.
An ant colony may be legitimately called a superorganism because its communication system is so highly organized that the colony always works as a whole and appropriately according to the circumstances.
They could trace the growth and shrinkage of continental glaciers, even in parts of the ocean where there may have been no great change in temperature  around the equator, for example.
The empty shell of a snail or clam may be left behind, and if it is sufficiently durable and resistant to dissolution, it may remain basically unchanged for a long period of time.
Many other processes may alter the shell of a clam or snail and enhance its chances for preservation.
Water containing dissolved silica, calcium carbonate, or iron may circulate through the enclosing sediment and be deposited in cavities such as marrow cavities and canals in bone once occupied by blood vessels and nerves.
Petrifaction may also involve a simultaneous exchange of the original substance of a dead plant or animal with mineral matter of a different composition.
Leaves and tissue of soft-bodied organisms such as jellyfish or worms may accumulate, become buried and compressed, and lose their volatile constituents.
Geothermal energy becomes available in a practical form when underground heat is transferred by water that is heated as it passes through a subsurface region of hot rocks (a heat reservoir) that may be hundreds or thousands of feet deep.
However, even children with low verbal skills showed evidence of remembering the event; thus, memories may be facilitated by but are not dependent on those verbal skills.
It may be that the developments just described are intertwined with and influence one another.
Talking with parents about the past may enhance the development of the self-concept, for example, as well as help the child understand what it means to "remember."
In this context the simplicity of a geometric motif may be more apparent than real.
First, there may be a brief cessation or reduction of breathing when falling asleep as the sleeper waxes and wanes between sleep and wakefulness and their differing control mechanisms.
After several generations of population growth, people packed the landscape in densities so high that communal pueblos may have been a necessary outcome.
Competition for good farmland may also have prompted people to bond together to assert rights over the best fields.Another important push was the onset of the Little Ice Age, a climatic phenomenon that led to cooler temperatures in the Northern Hemisphere.
Scientists have no direct evidence for recent or ongoing eruptions, but if these volcanoes were active as recently as 100 million, years ago (an estimate of the time of last "eruption based on the extent of impact cratering on their slopes), some of them may still be at least intermittently active.
Millions of years, though, may pass between eruptions.
Today green algae live mainly in freshwater, suggesting that their early evolutionary history may have occurred in freshwater habitats.
There are two general classes of vegetation: long-lived perennials, which may be succulent (water-storing) and are often dwarfed and woody, and annuals or ephemerals, which have a short life cycle and may form a fairly dense stand immediately after rain.
Animals also have to adapt to desert conditions, and they may do it through two forms of behavioral adaptation: they either escape or retreat.
The biblical story of the Flood may originate in Sumer.
Also, a specialized metal-producing workshop may have been excavated in a small area at Uruk.
In this situation the predator and prey populations may continue in this cyclical pattern for some time.
However, even igneous and metamorphic rocks may act as groundwater reservoirs if extensive fracturing occurs in such rocks and if the fracture system is interconnected.
In some cases, the water table reaches Earth's surface, where it is expressed as rivers, lakes, and marshes.Typically, though, the water table may be tens or hundreds of meters below the surface.The water table is not flat but usually follows the contours of the topography.
Groundwater commonly collects in stream drainages but may remain entirely beneath the surface of dry stream-beds in arid regions.
In particularly wet years, short stretches of an otherwise dry stream-bed may have flowing water because the water table rises to intersect the land surface.
The same effects of inbreeding may have occurred in controlled cattle populations, with some additional, and perhaps unrecognized, advantages.
The newly domesticated animals behaved better, were easier to control, and may have enjoyed a higher birth rate, which in turn yielded greater milk supplies.
Because both sexes of whitetails respond to buck rubs by smelling and licking them, rubs may serve a very important additional function.
In view of this behavior it has been suggested that chemicals present in fresh buck rubs may help physiologically induce and synchronize fertility in females that visit these rubs.
When several individuals of the same species or of several different species depend on the same limited resource, a situation may arise that is referred to as competition.
It is one of the factors controlling the size of competing populations, and extreme cases it may lead to the extinction of one of the competing species.
But it may also occur among totally unrelated forms that compete for the same resource, such as seed-eating rodents and ants.
Competition may occur for any needed resource.
In the case of animals it is usually food; in the case of forest plants it may be light; in the case of substrate inhabitants it may be space, as in many shallow-water bottom-dwelling marine organisms.
Indeed, it may be for any of the factors, physical as well as biotic, that are essential for organisms.
Depending on the species, play may be primarily for social interaction, exercise, or exploration.
Exactly why animals play is still a matter debated in the research literature, and the reasons may not be the same for every species that plays.
Determining the functions of play is difficult because the functions may be long-term, with beneficial effects not showing up until the animal  s adulthood.
Thus, active play may provide necessary stimulation to the growth of synaptic connections in the brain, especially the cerebellum, which is responsible for motor functioning and movements.
Play also stimulates the development of the muscle tissues themselves and may provide the opportunity to practice those movements needed for survival.
There is a danger, of course, that play may be misinterpreted or not recognized as play by others, potentially leading to aggression.
These episodes of rapid evolution are separated by relatively long static spans during which a species may hardly change at all.
Slow, continuous change may be the norm during periods of environmental stability, while rapid evolution of new species occurs during periods of environmental stress.
Both these devices worked well in sunny climates; but in Northern Europe the sun may be hidden by clouds for weeks at a time, while temperatures vary not only seasonally but from day to night.
Allopatric speciation may be the main speciation route.
The most recent comprehensive evaluation of early intervention programs suggests that, taken as a group, preschools programs can provide significant benefits, and that government funds invested early in life may ultimately lead to a reduction in future costs.
Though plenty of rain may fall on a savanna during the year, for at least part of the year little does, creating the drought stress ultimately favoring grasses.
This may seem contradictory, but it only means that extreme soil conditions, either too wet or too dry for forests, are satisfactory for savannas.
A fertile, plowed field is rapidly invaded by a large variety of weeds, whereas a neighboring construction site from which the soil has been compacted or removed to expose a coarse, infertile parent material may remain virtually free of vegetation for many months or even years despite receiving the same input of seeds as the plowed field. 
This is particularly important for species that colonize an environment where there is no existing vegetation to ameliorate climatic extremes and in which there maybe great climatic diversity.
The first community that occupies a disturbed area therefore may be composed of species with the highest rate of invasion, whereas the community of the subsequent stage may consist of plants with similar survival rates but lower invasion rates.
If workers from two different colonies arrive at the prospective nest at the same time, they may fight for possession.
Fights may be escalated into protracted battles.
Many prehistorians believe that farming may have emerged in dependently in several different areas of the world when small communities, driven by increasing population and a decline in available food resources, began to plant seeds in the ground in an effort to guarantee their survival.
The first farmers, who may have lived as long as 10,000 years ago, undoubtedly used simple techniques and still relied primarily on other forms of food production, such as hunting, foraging, or pastoralism.
Nevertheless, climatic explanations for the K-T extinction are not really challenged by the ideas that dinosaurs may have been endothermic, because even endotherms can be affected by a significant change in the climate.
A more sedentary existence may also have lowered infant mortality and perhaps increased longevity among the aged.
All of these factors may have resulted in a trend of increasing size among some local human populations in the Holocene (since 9600 B.C.E.).
In some areas, small changes in climate or minor changes in plant characteristics may have further destabilized local economies.
However, good land may itself be limited    for example, to within the confines of a river valley.
This may be one of the factors, but it is unlikely to be the sole cause because there are species that become dominant species at various temperatures.
While this factor may also contribute, observations suggest that phytoplankton populations rise and fall much more quickly than nutrient concentrations change.
Some species may be unable to thrive until a particular vitamin, or group of vitamins, is present in the water.
Other organic compounds that may inhibit or promote various species include amino acids, carbohydrates, and fatty acids.
Although it is suspected that these organic metabolites may have an important role in species succession and it has been demonstrated in the laboratory that phytoplankton species vary both in their ability to produce necessary vitamins and in their requirements for such in order to grow, evidence is still inadequate as to their real role in the sea.
Under exceptionally favorable conditions, up to a million earthworms (with a total body weight exceeding 450 kilograms) may inhabit an acre of soil.
Unfortunately, too, most of the written work fo Anaximenes, who may have been Anaximander  s pupil, has also been lost.
Anaximenes may have also been the first to study rainbows and speculate upon their natural rather than supernatural cause. 
This may be either to establish a new population where a population of conspecifics ( animals or plants belonging to the same species) has become extinct or to add individuals to an existing population.
Additionally, translocation of predators or competitors may have negative impacts on other species, resulting in an overall loss of diversity.
Successful translocations inevitably get recorded and gain attention, whereas failures may never be recorded at all.
For example, what looks to the unaided eye like a single star in the sky may be resolved as two stars with the help of a telescope.
The raccoon  s expansion in various areas may also be due to the spread of agriculture.
The control of coyotes in the prairie region in the 1950s may have been a factor in raccoon expansion, If their numbers are sufficient coyotes might be able to suppress raccoon populations (though little direct evidence supports this notion).
The extermination of the wolf from most of the contiguous United States may have been a critical factor in the raccoon's expansion and numerical increase.
Even though raccoons may not have been a significant part of their diet, wolves surely would have tried to prey on those exposed in relatively treeless areas.
However, in some cases, it may become a serious problem.
These insects may allow Bt susceptibility to remain in the population.
Farmers who use Bt transgenics may not feel that they need to follow through with integrated pest-management practices that use beneficial insects and timely applications of pesticides to control insect pests.
They may have had relatively low reproductive rates; apparently, they usually laid only one egg at a time.
It seems possible that when Captain James Cook first visited New Zealand in 1769, moa (or at least one of the moa species) may have still survived in the remote areas in the western part of New Zealand  s South Island.
The Maori may have also inadvertently brought pests and disease organisms in fowls, which could have crossed over to eradicate moa populations.
One factor is the direct effect of logging, which often turns a forest into something approximating a huge pile of kindling (wood for burning): the ground in a logged forest may remain covered with branches and treetops, left behind when the valuable trunks are carted away; a dense growth of new vegetation springs up, further increasing the forest  s fuel loads; and the trees logged and removed are of course the biggest and most fire-resistant individuals, leaving behind smaller and more flammable trees.
When a fire finally does start in a sapling-choked forest, whether due to lightning or human carelessness or (regrettably often) intentional arson, the dense, tall saplings young trees) may become a ladder that allows the fire to jump into the crowns of the trees.
Although area may contribute to biodiversity, it is certainly not the whole story; otherwise, large landmasses would always be richer in species.
The largest of these paintings may be up to 5.5 meters in diameter and cover the entire floor of a room.
Venus and Earth are similar in size and mass, so Venusian volcanoes may well have outgassed as much water vapor as on Earth, and both planets would have had about the same number of comets strike their surfaces.
This hot and humid state of affairs may have persisted for several hundred million years.
There may or may not have been a market organization.
A mountain range may emerge and gradually split a population of organisms that can inhabit only lowland lakes; certain fish populations might become isolated in this way.
Similarly, a creeping glacier may gradually divide a population, or a land bridge such as the Isthmus of Panama may form and separate the marine life in the ocean waters on either side.
The passage of wind-blown tree pollen is also not hindered by such barriers, and the seeds of many plants may be carried back and forth on animals.
In contrast, small rodents may find a deep canyon or a wide river an effective barrier.
Completely isolated on the island after migrating from the mainland, the founder population may have undergone significant changes in its gene pool and become a new species.
Later, a few individuals of this new species may have been blown by storms to a neighboring island Isolated on this second island, the second founder population could have evolved into a second new species, which could later recolonize the island from which its founding population emigrated.
Much of its surface may be as young as half a billion years.
Ganymede is close enough to Jupiter that tidal forces from the giant planet may have episodically heated its interior and triggered major convulsions on its crust.
A complex sequence of chemical reactions is involved in converting the original solid organic matter to oil and gas, and additional chemical changes may occur in the oil and gas even after they have formed.
Changes in climate during the Devonian may have had something to do with this if freshwater areas became progressively more restricted.
Another impetus may have been new sources of food.
For example, water depth and turbidity (density of particles in the water) together or separately control the amount of light available to the plants and the depth to which the seagrasses may extend.
Still, extreme temperatures, in combination with other factors, may have dramatic detrimental effects.
For example, in areas of the cold North Atlantic, ice may form in winter.
Researchers Robertson and Mann note that when the ice begins to break up, the wind and tides may move the ice around, scouring the bottom and uprooting the eelgrass.
Small grains may be blown farther but they are also more prone to be whisked past the waiting stigma because smaller particles tend to stay trapped in the fast-moving air that flows around the stigma.
But stigmas create turbulence, which slows the air speed around them and may help pollen stick to them.
In contrast, the food levels in the deeper layers of the ocean are greatly reduced, and the energy constraints on the animals are much more severe To survive at those levels, animals must maximize their energy input, finding and eating whatever potential food source may be present.
Even though mean levels may mask much higher local concentrations, it is still the case that many deep-sea animals are exposed to conditions in which a normal filter-feeder would starve
Another solution for such animals is to forage in particular layers of water where the particles may be more concentrated.
In such creatures, not only are the teeth hugely enlarged and/or the jaws elongated but the size of the mouth opening may be greatly increased by making the jaw articulations so flexible that they can be effectively dislocated.
Second, diverse ecosystems may be less likely to be invaded by new species, notably exotics (foreign species living outside their native range), that would disrupt the ecosystem  s structure and function.
Third, in a species-rich ecosystem, diseases may spread more slowly because most species will be relatively less abundant, thus increasing the average distance between individuals of the same species and hampering disease transmission among individuals.
To put this result in more general terms, a species-rich ecosystem may be more stable because it is more likely to have species with a wide array of responses to variable conditions such as droughts.
In the end, despite insightful attempts to detect some general patterns, we may find it very difficult to reduce this topic to a simple, universal truth.
The transition between the Ming and Qing dynasties (the seventeenth century) may have seen a decline, but from 1741 to 1851 the annual figures rose steadily and spectacularly, perhaps beginning with 143 million and ending with 432 million.
Control of disease, like the checking of smallpox by variolation may have been important.
The constant outpouring of pollutants into the environment may influence the climate of the city.
Studies suggest that precipitation may be greater in cities than in the surrounding countryside; this phenomenon may be due in part to the increased roughness of city terrain, brought on by large structures that cause surface air to slow and gradually converge.
Pollutants from urban areas may even affect the weather downwind from them.
