Having little understanding of natural causes, it attributes both desirable and undesirable occurrences to supernatural or magical forces, and it searches for means to win the favor of these forces.
Although origin in ritual has long been the most popular, it is by no means the only theory about how the theater came into being.
The whale retained a tail and lacked a fluke, the major means of locomotion in modern cetaceans.
With the advent of projection, the viewer's relationship with the image was no longer private, as it had been with earlier peepshow devices such as the Kinetoscope and the Mutoscope, which was a similar machine that reproduced motion by means of successive images on individual photographic cards instead of on strips of celluloid.
The first problem is that ecologists do not all agree what   stability   means.
If this is true, it would mean that Upper Paleolithic people were capable of complex thought and were consciously aware of their environment.
Detailed studies of the winds and currents using computer simulations suggest that drifting canoes would have been a most unlikely means of colonizing the Pacific.
Most people remember only a few events  usually ones that were meaningful and distinctive, such as being hospitalized or a sibling  s birth. 
This was an important innovation, because the camel  s abilities to thrive in harsh desert conditions and to carry large loads cheaply made it an effective and efficient means of transportation.
Iron hoes, which made the land more productive, and iron weapons, which made the warrior more powerful, had symbolic meaning in a number of West Africa societies.
They spoke a language, proto-Bantu (  Bantu   means   the people  ), which is the parent tongue of a language of a large number of Bantu languages still spoken throughout sub-Sahara Africa.
All this led to increased wealth, which in turn would attract more immigrants to Teotihuac  n. The growing power of the elite, who controlled the economy, would give them the means to physically coerce people to move to Teotihuac  n and serve as additions to the labor force.
By means of these seeds, plants spread more widely to new locations, even to isolated islands like the Hawaiian archipelago, which lies more than 2,000 miles west of California and 3,500 miles east of Japan.
Just as painted designs on Greek pots may seem today to be purely decorative, whereas in fact they were carefully and precisely worked out so that at the time, their meaning was clear, so it is with Chinese pots.
To twentieth-century eyes, Chinese pottery may appear merely decorative, yet to the Chinese the form of each object and its adornment had meaning and significance.
Only when European decorative themes were introduced did these meanings become obscured or even lost.
This meant that some sort of biological clock was operating-and a very precise clock at that.
Through association with people who are meaningful to us, we achieve a sense of security, love, acceptance, companionship, and personal worth.
Occasionally, this may mean working with instead of against competitors.
Instrumental ties predominate in secondary groups; we perceive people as means to ends rather than as ends in their own right.
By providing us with definitions of situations, they elicit from our behavior that conforms to group-devised meanings.
Because they cannot verbalize or fill out questionnaires, indirect techniques of naturalistic observation are used as the primary means of determining what infants can see, hear, feel, and so forth.
Claims such as "the best" or "better than" can be subjective and misleading; even adults may be unsure as to their meaning.
However, research has shown that children often have difficulty understanding disclaimers: children may interpret the phrase "when part of a nutritionally balanced breakfast" to mean that the cereal is required as a necessary part of a balanced breakfast.
All else being equal, this means they must exploit larger areas of land than do agriculturalists to secure the same amount of food, clothing, and other necessities.
It means that pastoralist societies occupy and can influence very large territories.
In the meantime, however, this ice is not static.
Dependence on long-distance trade also meant that the great empires of the Middle East were built both literally and figuratively on shifting sand.
One of the outer planets, Saturn, has a density of only 0.7 that of water, which means that Saturn would float in water.
The explanation may be that the terrestrial planets were once much larger and richer in these materials but eventually lost them because of these bodies' relative closeness to the Sun, which meant that their temperatures were relatively high.
By this means, they signal their level of aggression or readiness to mate.
In densely wooded environments, sound is the best means of communication over distance because in comparison with light, it travels with little impediment from trees and other vegetation.
This meant a great dependence on international commerce, which had notorious fluctuations; but it also meant high returns to those factors of production that were fortunate enough to be well placed in times of prosperity.
This then meant that the military had to remain to suppress rebellion and organize government.
The army also provided a mean of personal advancement for auxiliary soldiers recruited from the native peoples, as a man obtained hereditary Roman citizenship on retirement after service in an auxiliary regiment.
Once children become capable of answering such questions as "What does it mean to remember?"
and "What does it mean to know something?"
Talking with parents about the past may enhance the development of the self-concept, for example, as well as help the child understand what it means to "remember."
Chondrites take their name from the Greek word chondros  meaning "seed"  an allusion to their appearance as rocks containing tiny seeds.
Since practically all the solar system's mass resides in the Sun, this similarity in chemistry means that chondrites have average solar system composition, except for the most volatile elements; they are truly lumps of nebular matter, probably similar in composition to the matter from which planets were assembled.
Although the remarkable antiquity of Australia  s rock art is now established, the sequences and meanings of its images have been widely debated.
Motifs of seeming simplicity can encode complex meanings in Aboriginal Australia.
By whatever means, a lake is constantly gaining water and losing water: its water does not just sit there, or, anyway, not for long.
A given lake  s residence time is by no means a fixed quantity.
Great Britain had large amounts of coal; however, there were not yet efficient means by which to produce mechanical energy or to power machinery.
The perennial vegetation adjusts to the aridity by means of various avoidance mechanisms.
They possess drought-resisting adaptations: loss of water through the leaves is reduced by means of dense hairs covering waxy leaf surfaces, by the closure of pores during the hottest times to reduce water loss, and by the rolling up or shedding of leaves at the beginning of the dry season.
These odors make buck rubs an important means of olfactory communication between deer.
Raising water and grinding corn were by no means the only uses of the waterpower mill, and during the following centuries, the applications of waterpower kept pace with the developing technologies of mining, iron working, paper making, and the wool and cotton industries.
This route to speciation is known as allopatry (  allo-   means   different  , and   patria   means   homeland  ).
This may seem contradictory, but it only means that extreme soil conditions, either too wet or too dry for forests, are satisfactory for savannas.
Many savanna and dry-forest plant species are called pyrophytes, meaning they are adapted in various ways to withstand occasional burning.
Pioneer species--- those that occur only in the earliest stages of colonization--- tend to have high rates of invasion because they produce very large numbers of reproductive propagules (seeds, spores, and so on) and because they have an efficient means of dispersal (normally, wind).
If colonizers produce short-lived reproductive propagules, then they must produce very large numbers unless they have an efficient means of dispersal to suitable new habitats.
Many plants depend on wind for dispersal and produce abundant quantities of small, relatively short-lived seeds to compensate for the fact that wind is not always a reliable means of reaching the appropriate type of habitat.
But the statistical averages mean little when measured against the harsh realities of peasant life.
By means of their military prowess, dominant personalities, or political talents, these people gradually emerge as the leaders of that community.
These large sheets meant that calligraphers and artists had more space on which to work.
The mean concentration of sulphur dioxide pollution fell from about 300 micrograms per cubic meter in 1970 to less than 50 micrograms per cubic meter in 1975 and has remained fairly constant since then If the spread of the light-colored form of the moth continues at the same speed as the melanic form spread in the last century, soon the melanic form will again be only an occasional resident of the Liverpool area.
For example, in traditional architecture, stone or brick walls served a structural role, but in a steel-beam building the walls were essentially hung from the internal skeleton of steel beams, which meant that walls and corners no longer needed to be solid but could be opened up in unexpected ways.
Perhaps the most serious concern about the transgenic crop plants currently in use is that they encourage farmers to move farther away from sustainable agricultural farming practices, meaning ones that allow natural resources to continually regenerate over the long run.
Writing was meant to impress the eye with the vastness of creating itself.
Hefiothermy is especially common among frogs and toads: it allows them to increase their body temperature by more than 10*C. The Andean toad Bufo spinulosus exposes itself immediately after sunrise on moist ground and attains its preferred body temperature by this means, long before either ground or air is correspondingly warmed.
Amphibians are therefore hardly at the mercy of ambient temperatures, since by means of the mechanisms described above they are more than able to exercise some control over their body temperature.
The purpose and meaning of the sand paintings can be explained by examining one of the most basic ideals of Navajo society, embodied in their word hozho (beauty or harmony, goodness, and happiness).
Working on their looms, Navajo weavers create images through which they experience harmony with nature it is their means of creating beauty and thereby contributing to the beauty, harmony, and healing of the world.
Its mass is only one-third as great, which means its density must be only one-third as great as well.
Callisto has not fully differentiated, meaning separated into layers of different density materials.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the highest ratio of oil and gas pools to volume of sediment is found in rock no older than 2.5 million years  young enough so that little of the petroleum has leaked away  and that nearly 60 percent of all oil and gas discovered so far has been found in strata that formed in the last 65 million years This does not mean that older rocks produced less petroleum; it simply means that oil in older rocks has had a longer time in which to leak away.
In 1558 Giovanni Battista Della Porta wrote in his twenty-volume work Magia naturalis (meaning "natural magic") instructions for adding a convex lens to improve the quality of the image thrown against a canvas or panel in the darkened area where its outlines could be traced.
The slowing of wave action and currents means that seagrass beds tend to accumulate sediment.
Even though mean levels may mask much higher local concentrations, it is still the case that many deep-sea animals are exposed to conditions in which a normal filter-feeder would starve
The commercial revolution created a great deal of new wealth, which meant a higher standard of living.
Because water transportation was the cheapest means of carrying goods to market, canals reduced prices and thus increased consumer demand.
