By far the most abundant type of groundwater is meteoric water; this is the groundwater that circulates as part of the water cycle.
The most widely accepted theory, championed by anthropologists in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, envisions theater as emerging out of myth and ritual.
Although origin in ritual has long been the most popular, it is by no means the only theory about how the theater came into being.
Probably the most important environmental factor is temperature, for if the growing season is too short and temperatures are too low, tree shoots and buds cannot mature sufficiently to survive the winter months.
The most striking characteristic of the plants of the alpine zone is their low growth form.
Very exciting discoveries have finally allowed scientists to reconstruct the most likely origins of cetaceans.
There is little doubt, however, that desertification in most areas results primarily from human activities rather than natural processes.
Since the raising of most crops necessitates the prior removal of the natural vegetation, crop failures leave extensive tracts of land devoid of a plant cover and susceptible to wind and water erosion. 
Even though early exhibitors shaped their film programs by mixing films and other entertainments together in whichever way they thought would be most attractive to audiences or by accompanying them with lectures, their creative control remained limited.
Of all the visual arts, architecture affects our lives most directly for it determines the character of the human environment in major ways.
The situation is most critical in Texas, where the climate is driest, the greatest amount of water is being pumped, and the aquifer contains the least water.
In that case, the climax community would be considered the most stable, since, by definition, it changes the least over time.
In that case, climax communities would be the most fragile and the least stable, since they can require hundreds of years to return to the climax state.
We need to know what aspects of a community are most important to the community  s resistance to destruction, as well as its recovery.
The black-tailed deer, a lowland, west-side cousin of the mule deer of eastern Washington, is now the most common.
But the most profound reason for the restoration of high population numbers has been the fate of the forests.
In addition, the paintings mostly portray animals that the painters may have feared the most because of their size, speed, natural weapons such as tusks and horns, and the unpredictability of their behavior.
Some soils are notoriously deficient in micro nutrients and are therefore unable to support most plant life.
Soils are most commonly deficient in nitrogen and phosphorus.
Although most plants cannot survive in these soils, certain plants have the ability to tolerate high levels of these minerals.
Detailed studies of the winds and currents using computer simulations suggest that drifting canoes would have been a most unlikely means of colonizing the Pacific.
Because all Polynesians, Micronesians, and many Melanesians speak Austronesian languages and grow crops derived from Southeast Asia, all these peoples most certainly derived from that region and not the New World or elsewhere.
At one time, the animals present in these fossil beds were assigned to various modern animal groups, but most paleontologists now agree that all Tommotian fossils represent unique body forms that arose in the early Cambrian period and disappeared before the end of the period, leaving no descendants in modern animal groups.
In Britain one of the most dramatic changes of the Industrial Revolution was the harnessing of power.
Furthermore, even the most reliable waterpower varied with the seasons and disappeared in a drought.
Moreover, the city had economic and perhaps religious contacts with most parts of Mesoamerica (modern Central America and Mexico).  
But belief in this ice-free corridor began to crumble when paleoecologist Glen MacDonald demonstrated that some of the most important radiocarbon dates used to support the existence of an ice-free corridor were incorrect.
Until the early 1970s,most archaeologists did not consider the coast a possible migration route into the Americas because geologists originally believed that during the last Ice Age the entire Northwest Coast was covered by glacial ice.
The most influential proponent of the coastal migration route has been Canadian archaeologist Knut Fladmark.
This is the time period in which most scientists formerly believed the area to be inhospitable for humans.
The most recent geologic evidence indicates that it may have been possible for people to colonize ice-free regions along the continental shelf that were still exposed by the lower sea level between13,000 and 14,000 years ago.
Wildman and Niles make a summary comment:   Perhaps the most important thing we learned is the idea of the teacher-as-reflective-practitioner will not happen simply because it is a good or even compelling idea.   
Apparently, the most obvious reason for teachers to work toward reflective practice is that teacher educators think it is a good thing.
Now, other forms of life could take hold: ferns and mosses (two of the most ancient types of land plants) that flourish even in rock crevices.
The tradition of religious sculpture extends over most historical periods but is less clearly delineated than that of stonewares or porcelains, for it embraces the old custom of earthenware burial ceramics with later religious images and architectural ornament.
One of the most far-reaching examples is the impact of the fine ninth-century AD.
One of the most difficult aspects of deciding whether current climatic events reveal evidence of the impact of human activities is that it is hard to get a measure of what constitutes the natural variability of the climate.
Dutch land reclamation in the Netherlands in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries provides the most spectacular example of the expansion of farmland: the Dutch reclaimed more than 36.000 acres from 1590 to 1615 alone.
As these experiments show, begging apparently provides a signal of need that parents use to make judgments about which offspring can benefit most from a feeding.
The shift from silent to sound film at the end of the 1920s marks, so far, the most important transformation in motion picture history.
In nearly every language, however the words are phrased, the most basic division in cinema history lies between films that are mute and films that speak.
Yet this most fundamental standard of historical periodization conceals a host of paradoxes.
Second, primary groups are fundamental because they provide the settings in which we meet most of our personal needs.
Almost universally, biologists accept the idea that all eukaryotes (a category that includes most organisms except bacteria and certain algae) have internal clocks.
The third, and most potent, limitation is that it is not possible to be certain that the infant's response was due to the stimulus presented or to a change from no stimulus to a stimulus.
The habituation-dishabituation paradigm has been used most extensively with studies of auditory and olfactory perception in infants.
Certainly, rational appeals in advertising aimed at children are limited, as most advertisements use emotional and indirect appeals to psychological states or associations.
Making matters worse, most of the Yucatan Peninsula consists of karst, a porous sponge-like limestone terrain where rain runs straight into the ground and where little or no surface water remains available.
It is the use of horses for transportation and warfare that explains why Inner Eurasian pastoralism proved the most mobile and the most militaristic of all major forms of pastoralism.
This is particularly true of the horse pastoralism that emerged in the Inner Eurasian steppes, for this was the most mobile of all major forms of pastoralism.
Perhaps the most striking sign of mobility is the fact that by the third millennium B.C., most pastoralists in this huge region spoke related languages ancestral to the modern Indo-European languages.
Inequalities of wealth and rank certainly exist, and have probably existed in most pastoralist societies, but except in periods of military conquest, they are normally too slight to generate the stable, hereditary hierarchies that are usually implied by the use of the term class.
Inequalities of gender have also existed in pastoralist societies, but they seem to have been softened by the absence of steep hierarchies of wealth in most communities, and also by the requirement that women acquire most of the skills of men, including, often, their military skills.
However, most of its internal heat comes from the action of its muscles.
Of the various hypotheses attempting to account for the late Cretaceous extinctions, the one that has attracted the most attention in recent years is the asteroid-impact hypothesis first suggested by Luis and Walter Alvarez.
Earth  s crust contains very little of this element, but most asteroids contain a lot more.
Throughout most of Earth  s history, glaciers did not exist, but at the present time about 10 percent of Earth  s land surface is covered by glaciers.
And, like the pastoralists, Middle Eastern merchants and artisans unhappy with their environment could simply pack up and leave for greener pastures  an act of self-assertion wholly impossible in most other civilizations throughout history.
An estimated 99.85 percent of the mass of our solar system is contained within the Sun, while the planets collectively make up most of the remaining 0.15 percent.
The most obvious difference between the terrestrial and the Jovian planets is their size.
The orderly nature of our solar system leads most astronomers to conclude that the planets formed at essentially the same time and from the same material as the Sun.
The sheer scale of the investment it took to begin commercial expansion at sea reflects the immensity of the profits that such East-West trade could create Spices were the most sought-after commodities.
The chameleon lizard has the most striking ability to do this.
A signal might be most easily seen if it is maximally bright.
Lightning that strikes the ground is the most likely to be destructive, so even though it represents only 20 percent of all lightning, it has received a lot of scientific attention.
The drift of the last glaciation was deposited during one of the most recent epochs of geologic time, the Pleistocene, which lasted from 1.8 million to 10,000 years ago.
Why were these hundreds of thousands of settlers  most of them farmers, some of them artisans  drawn away from the cleared fields and established cities and villages of the East?
About 9000 B.C., most human settlements lay in the area along the Mediterranean coast and in the Zagros Mountains of Iran and their foothills.
Although most fossils are found in marine sedimentary rocks, they also are found in terrestrial deposits left by streams and lakes.
    By far the most abundant form of geothermal energy occurs at the relatively low temperatures of 80   to 180   centigrade.
Like most other energy sources, geothermal energy presents some environmental problems.
Geothermal energy is in a sense not renewable, because in most cases the heat would be drawn out of a reservoir much more rapidly than it would be replaced by the very slow geological processes by which heat flows through solid rock into a heat reservoir.
These natural salt marshes are among the most productive habitats in the marine environment.
Because they lack oxygen, marsh sediments are high in sulfides that are toxic to most plants.
Another adaptive advantage is Spartina  s ability to use carbon dioxide more efficiently than most other plants.
Unlike most major inventions, photography had been long and impatiently awaited.
One of the things that most impressed the original audience for photography was the idea of authenticity.
Even those artists who were most dependent on photography became reluctant to admit that they made use of it, in case this compromised their professional standing.
They are composed of minerals uncommon on Earth, all rich in calcium, aluminum, and titanium, the most refractory (resistant to melting) of the major elements in the nebula.
The major difference is that Allende is depleted in the most volatile elements, like hydrogen, carbon, oxygen, nitrogen, and the noble gases, relative to the Sun.
Since practically all the solar system's mass resides in the Sun, this similarity in chemistry means that chondrites have average solar system composition, except for the most volatile elements; they are truly lumps of nebular matter, probably similar in composition to the matter from which planets were assembled.
The second factor is that radiant heat coming into the city from the Sun is trapped in two ways: (1) by a continuing series of reflection among the numerous vertical surfaces that buildings present and (2) by the dust dome, the cloudlike layer of polluted air that most cities produce.
The most significant data have come from a concentration on three major questions.
The residence time is an average; the time spent in the lake by a given molecule (if we could follow its fate) would depend on the route it took: it might flow through as part of the fastest, most direct current, or it might circle in a backwater for an indefinitely long time.
Of all the physiological differences in human sleep compared with wakefulness that have been discovered in the last decade, changes in respiratory control are most dramatic.
Archaeologists find that even the most isolated residences during the eleventh and twelfth centuries obtained some pottery, and probably food, from some distance away, while major ceremonial events were opportunities for sharing food and crafts.
Instead, the most sensible thing would be for neighbors to combine efforts to produce as much food as possible, and thus aggregated towns were a sensible arrangement.
In the late thirteenth century, northern Italian cities such as Genoa, Florence, and Venice began an economic resurgence that made them into the most important economic centers of Europe.
Of today's different groups of algae, green algae are probably the most similar to ancestral plants.
So the most successful groups of land plants are those that evolved methods of fertilized sex cell dispersal that are independent of water and structures that protest developing embryos from drying out.
Production of British cotton goods increased sixtyfold, and cotton cloth became Great Britain  s most important product, accounting for one-half of all exports.
The harsh conditions in deserts are intolerable for most plants and animals.
In an early fourth-millennium level of the Eanna archaeological site at Uruk, a pottery style appears that is most characteristic of this process, the so-called beveled-rim bowl.
The beveled-rim bowl is one of the most telling diagnostic finds for indentifying an Uruk-period site.
Of importance is the fact that it was produced rapidly in large amounts, most likely by specialists in a central location. 
Certain images depict groups of people, most likely women, involved in weaving textiles, an activity we know from later third-millennium texts to have been vital in the economy and to have been centrally administered.
The plates have edges that are spreading ridges (where two plates are moving apart and new seafloor is being created), subduction zones (where two plates collide and one plunges beneath the other),or transform faults(where two plates neither converge nor diverge but merely move past one another).It is at the boundaries between plates that most of Earth  s volcanism and earthquake activity occur.
Today  s most northwest island would have been the first to form.
The most recent island, Hawaii, would be at the end of the chain and is now over the volcanic source.
Other islands, including Tahiti and Easter Islands in the Pacific, Reunion and Mauritius in the Indian Ocean, an indeed most of the large islands in the world  s oceans, owe their existence to mantle plumes.
Sedimentary rocks  the most common rock type near the surface  are also the most common reservoirs for water because they contain the most space that can be filled with water.Sandstones generally make good aquifers, while finer-grained mudstones are typically impermeable.
But what strikes the eye and the touch most immediately and most powerfully with Roman pottery is its consistent high quality.
No serious competition exists when the major needed resource is in superabundant supply, as in most cases of the coexistence of herbivores (plant eaters).
Furthermore, most species do not depend entirely on a single resource, if the major resource for a species becomes scarce, the species can usually shift to alternative resources.
Competition is usually most severe among close relatives with similar demands on the environment.
Together with predation, it is the most important density-dependent factor in regulating population growth. 
The power source of this most modern technology was a raditional waterwheel.
Play has been studied most extensively in primates and canids(dogs).
By the early twentieth century, the question about the rate of evolution had been answered in favor of gradualism to most biologists   satisfaction.
In most localities a given species of clam or coral persists essentially unchanged throughout a thick formation of rock, only to be replaced suddenly by a new and different species.
In general, the subpopulations of most species are separated from each other by some measurable distance.
The most recent comprehensive evaluation of early intervention programs suggests that, taken as a group, preschools programs can provide significant benefits, and that government funds invested early in life may ultimately lead to a reduction in future costs.
Savannas experience an annual rainfall of between 1,000 and 2,000 millimeters, most of it falling in a five- to eight-month wet season.
Though most savannas are found on sites with poor soils(because of either moisture conditions or nutrient levels of both), poor soils can and do support lush rain forest. 
There is generally little doubt that fire is a significant factor in maintaining savanna, certainly in most regions.
Forests on white, sandy soil are most susceptible to permanent alteration. 
In 1840 most northwestern grain was shipped south down the Mississippi River to the bustling port of New Orleans.
The five major mass extinctions receive most of the attention, but they are only one end of a spectrum of extinction events.
The arts of the Islamic book, such as calligraphy and decorative drawing, developed during A.D. 900 to 1500, and luxury books are some of the most characteristic examples of Islamic art produced in this period.
Before A.D. 900, manuscripts of the Koran (the book containing the teachings of the Islamic religion) seem to have been the most common type of book produced and decorated, but after that date a wide range of books were produced for a broad spectrum of patrons.
Some of the most luxurious books were specific commissions made at the order of a particular prince and sighed by the calligrapher and decorator. 
Because of the growth of population, most of the great forests of medieval Britain had long ago been replaced by fields of grain and hay.
By 1640 most homes in London were heated with it, and it also provided heat for making beer, glass, soap, and other products.
These plants usually occur where ants are abundant, most in the tropics but some in temperate areas.
The extrafloral nectaries of some plants are known to attract ants and other insects, but the evolutionary history of most plants with these nectaries is unknown.
Nevertheless, most ecologists believe that all extrafloral nectaries attract insects that will defend the plant. 
Ants are probably the most frequent and certainly the most persistent defenders of plants.
For most of human history, we have foraged (hunted, fished, and collected wild plants) for food.
Considering that seasonal succession is most often and clearly seen in temperate seas, which have a marked change in temperature during a year, temperature has been suggested as a cause.
The B vitamins, especially vitamin B12, thiamine and biotin, seem to be the most generally required.
In fact, for mature soils in many parts of the world, the predominant type of natural vegetation is considered the most important direct influence on soil characteristics.
By far the most numerous and smallest of the plants living in soil are bacteria.
These single-celled organisms are the most numerous representatives of the animal kingdom, and, like bacteria, a million or more can sometimes inhabit each cubic centimeter of soil.
Among other soil-dwelling animals, the earthworm is probably the most important.
Below that was the final zone in Forbes  s scheme, zone nine, a zone that covered most of the ocean floor and thus most of the solid surface of Earth: Forbes called this the azoic zone, where no animal, to say nothing of plants, could survive. 
The idea of natural selection is that organisms in a species that have characteristics favoring survival are most likely to survive and produce offspring with the same characteristics.
One of the most thoroughly analyzed examples of natural selection in operation is the change in color that has occurred in certain populations of the peppered moth, Biston betularia, in industrial regions of Europe during the past 100 years.
Like most of the great Greek philosophers, Thales had an influence on others around him.
Anaximander  s most important contributions, though, were in other areas.
Unfortunately, most of Anaximander  s written history of the universe was lost, and only a few fragments survive today.
Unfortunately, too, most of the written work fo Anaximenes, who may have been Anaximander  s pupil, has also been lost.
This exciting burst of intellectual activity was for the most part purely creative.
Translocation clearly has a role in the recovery of species that have substantially declined and is the most likely method by which many sedentary species can recover all or part of their former range.
Reviewing translocation of amphibians and reptiles, researchers C.Kenneth Dodd and Richard A. Siegel concluded that most projects have not demonstrated success as conservation techniques and should not be advocated as though they were acceptable management and mitigation practices.
Wright  s most dramatic residence, Fallingwater, has balconies that thrust far out over a stream in a way that seems to defy gravity.
In fact, the most powerful modern electron microscopes can distinguish objects as small as 0.2 nanometers, a thousandfold improvement over the light microscope.
Raccoons have a vast transcontinental distribution, occurring throughout most of North America and Central America.
The extermination of the wolf from most of the contiguous United States may have been a critical factor in the raccoon's expansion and numerical increase.
The most common transgenic crops are soybeans, corn, cotton, and canola.
Perhaps the most serious concern about the transgenic crop plants currently in use is that they encourage farmers to move farther away from sustainable agricultural farming practices, meaning ones that allow natural resources to continually regenerate over the long run.
Snakes and most mammals evolved after the separation.
The most striking of these animals must have been moa.
However, the main forest burning started around 700 years ago, after what current archaeological evidence indicates was the most intensive stage of moa hunting.
While there appears to have been extensive burning on the east side of New Zealand  s South Island, large forest tracts remained in the most southern part of the island.
The density of Maori settlements and artifacts increased substantially at the time of the most intensive moa hunting (900 to 600 years ago).
One factor is the direct effect of logging, which often turns a forest into something approximating a huge pile of kindling (wood for burning): the ground in a logged forest may remain covered with branches and treetops, left behind when the valuable trunks are carted away; a dense growth of new vegetation springs up, further increasing the forest  s fuel loads; and the trees logged and removed are of course the biggest and most fire-resistant individuals, leaving behind smaller and more flammable trees.
One of the most important changes in Greece during the period from 800 B.C.
Cleisthenes' principal contribution to the creation of democracy at Athens was to complete the long process of weakening family and dam structures, especially among the aristocrats, and to set in their place locality-based corporations called demes, which became the point of entry for all civic and most religious life in Athens.
The assembly was sovereign in all matters but in practice delegated its power to subordinate bodies such as the council, which prepared the agenda firm for meetings of the assembly, and the courts, which took care of most judicial matters.
Where conditions are most suitable for plant growth  that is, where temperatures are relatively high and uniform and where there is an ample supply of water-one usually finds large masses of vegetation.
However, behavior is by far the most important factor in thermoregulation.
Thigmothermy is a behavior present in most amphibians, although pressing against the ground serves a dual purpose: heat absorption by conductivity and water absorption through the skin.
For example, the most important traditional Navajo rituals include the production of large floor paintings.
The purpose and meaning of the sand paintings can be explained by examining one of the most basic ideals of Navajo society, embodied in their word hozho (beauty or harmony, goodness, and happiness).
The species on the Galapagos Islands today, most of which occur nowhere else, descended from organisms that floated, flew, or were blown over the sea from the South American mainland.
When the bolide struck, this energy was released and generated a huge shock wave that leveled everything for thousands of kilometers around the impact and caused most of the landscape to burst into flames.
According to computerized climate models, global temperatures fell to near the freezing point, photosynthesis halted, and most plants on land and in the sea died.
Towns and cities were established not only as garrisons (military posts) but as centers for the diffusion of Greek language, literature, and thought, particularly through libraries, as at Antioch (in modern Turkey) and the most famous of all, at Alexandria in Egypt, which would be the finest in the world for the next thousand years.
Snowstorms in the northeast portion of the United States were more frequent and intense than in most years.
One of the most significant evolutionary events that occurred on Earth was the transition of water-dwelling fish to terrestrial tetrapods (four-limbed organisms with backbones).
The most significant is water motion: currents and waves.
It is interesting that temperate seagrass beds accumulate sediments from sources outside the beds, whereas tropical seagrass beds derive most of their sediments from within.
Since most seagrass systems are depositional environments, they eventually accumulate organic material that leads to the creation of fine-grained sediments with a much higher organic content than that of the surrounding unvegetated areas.
Guthrie has argued against this view by pointing out that radiocarbon analysis of mammoth, horse, and bison bones from Beringian deposits revealed that the bones date to the period of most intense glaciation.
Particulate organic matter of at least 2.5 micrograms per cubic liter is required to provide a filter-feeding planktonic organism with a net energy gain This value is easily exceeded in most coastal waters, but in the deep sea, the levels of organic matter range from next to nothing to around 7 micrograms per cubic liter.
The batches, some of which contain thousands of tablets, consist for the most part of documents of the types just mentioned: bills, deliveries, receipts, inventories, loans, marriage contracts, divorce settlements, court judgments, and so on.
Hanseatic merchants established foreign trading centers, the most famous of which was the London Steelyard, a walled community with warehouses, offices, a church, and residential quarters for company representatives.
A good illustration of this occurred after sea otters were eliminated from some Pacific kelp (seaweed) bed ecosystems: the kelp beds were practically obliterated too because in the absence of sea otter predation, sea urchin populations exploded and consumed most of the kelp and other macroalgae.
Third, in a species-rich ecosystem, diseases may spread more slowly because most species will be relatively less abundant, thus increasing the average distance between individuals of the same species and hampering disease transmission among individuals.
In the most extreme instances, natives literally bought the whole package of Roman culture.
This art had a major impact on the native peoples, and one of the most importance factors was a change in the scale of buildings.
Among the most architecturally advanced of these termites is an African species, Macroternes natalensis.
Some atolls are very large  Kwajelein in the Marshall Islands of the South Pacific is 120 kilometers long and as much as 24 kilometers across-but most are very much smaller, and rise only a few meters above the water.
Coral reefs have fascinated scientists for almost 200 years, and some of the most pertinent observations of them were made in the 1830s by Charles Darwin on the voyage of the Beagle.
At present they are coming under a variety of threats, of which two of the most important are dredging and the effects of increased siltation brought about by accelerated erosion from neighboring land areas.
But of most critical importance was the food supply.
In a few rare cases, most of them   mummies   (unusually well preserved specimens), fossilized plant remains have been found inside the body cavity of hadrosaurs.
The most crucial effect of climate was on the sheer quantity of land available in each period, measurable by studying ancient coastlines.
One of the most important phenomena of the later Middle Ages was the growing availability of cheap paper.
Their most successful scriptorium quickly imported two leading German printers to set up presses in their book-producing shop.
