Crustal movements closed the straits, and the landlocked Mediterranean began to evaporate.
The diffusion of agriculture and later of iron was accompanied by a great movement of people who may have carried these innovations.
Their migration may have been set in motion by an increase in population caused by a movement of peoples fleeing the desiccation, or drying up, of the Sahara.
Vast areas along the coast may have been deglaciated beginning around 16,000 years ago, possibly providing a coastal corridor for the movement of plants, animals, and humans sometime between 13,000 and 14,000 years ago. 
He then set up experiments with caged starlings and found that their orientation was, in fact, in the proper migratory direction except when the sky was overcast, at which times there was no clear direction to their restless movements.
If the artificial Sun remained stationary, the birds would shift their direction with respect to it at a rate of about 15 degrees per hour, the Sun's rate of movement across the sky.
In other words, they were able to compensate for the Sun's movement.
The part of the brain responsible for fine control and movement is located in the left cerebral hemisphere, and the findings above suggest that the human brain was already asymmetrical in its structure and function not long after 2 million years ago.
The rate of movement may be very slow: in the Indus plain, the movement of saline (salty) groundwaters has still not reached equilibrium after 70 years of being tapped.
For example, if a uniformly moving pattern of some sort is passed across the visual field of a neonate (newborn), repetitive following movements of the eye occur.
The occurrence of these eye movements provides evidence that the moving pattern is perceived at some level by the newborn.
Often the rapid and diffuse movements of the infant make it difficult to get an accurate record of the number of responses.
As small countries dependent on foreign markets, they followed a liberal trade policy in the main, though a protectionist movement developed in Sweden.
The story of the westward movement of population in the United States is, in the main, the story of the expansion of American agriculture  of the development of new areas for the raising of livestock and the cultivation of wheat, corn, tobacco, and cotton.
Scientific experiments made by photographers such as Eadweard Muybridge (1830-1904) and Etienne-Jules Marey (1830-1904) demonstrated that the movements of both humans and animals differed widely from the way they had been traditionally represented in art.
Wind movements are also modified in cities because buildings increase the friction on air flowing around them.
During NREM (the phase of sleep in which there is no rapid eye movement) breathing becomes deeper and more regular, but there is also a decrease in the breathing rate, resulting in less air being exchanged overall.
Some of the muscles that help keep the upper airway open when breathing tend to become more relaxed during sleep, especially during REM (the phase of sleep in which there is rapid eye movement).
The sparse distribution of the feathers, however, also allows considerable lateral air movement over the skin surface, thereby permitting further heat loss by convection.
At the same time, both cattle and humans were more confined in their movements, staying much closer to permanent water supplies for long periods of time.
At first, they controlled the movement of the herd while ensuring continuance of their meat diet.
In any case, in animals it consists of leaping, running, climbing, throwing, wrestling, and other movements, either alone, with objects, or with other animals.
Play is usually very active, involving movement in space and, at times, noisemaking.
Thus, active play may provide necessary stimulation to the growth of synaptic connections in the brain, especially the cerebellum, which is responsible for motor functioning and movements.
Play also stimulates the development of the muscle tissues themselves and may provide the opportunity to practice those movements needed for survival.
Prey species, like young deer or goats, for example, typically play by performing sudden flight movements and turns, whereas predator species, such as cats, practice stalking, pouncing, and biting.
Allopatric speciation can also be brought by the imperceptibly slow but colossal movements of the tectonic plates that make up Earth  s surface.
About 5 million years ago such geologic movements created the land bridge between North America and South America that we call he Isthmus of Panama.
Much population movement involved the opening up of new lands for rice cultivation.
The numerous plants and animals living in the soil release minerals from the parent material from which soil is formed, supply organic matter, aid in the translocation (movement) and aeration of the soil, and help protect the soil from erosion.
For a biologist studying a living process, such as the whirling movement of a bacterium, a light microscope equipped with a video camera might be better than either a scanning electron microscope or a transmission electron microscope.
There are even indications of large-scale crustal movements that are similar to the plate tectonics of Earth.
Alexander the Great took his Greek armies to the east and in only a few years completed his creation of an empire out of much of southwest Asia In the new empire, barriers to trade and the movement of peoples were removed; markets were put in touch with one another.
This accumulation, in turn, reduces the water movement and the oxygen supply.
In the majority of cases, the beaches lie at a higher level because the land has been raised up through isostatic uplift or tectonic movement.
Tectonic movements involve displacements in the plates that make up Earth  s crust, Middle and Late Pleistocene raised beaches in the Mediterranean are one instance of such movements.
mark the position of the shoreline at a time of maximum inundation by the sea (6,500-5,500 years ago), when, through tectonic movement, the sea was three to five meters higher in relation to the contemporary landmass of Japan than at present.
At the same time, people were moving to the city, partly because of the enclosure movement; that is, the fencing of common fields and pastures in order to provide more compact, efficient privately held agricultural parcels that would produce more goods and greater profits.
