The total volume of water in the saturated sample must therefore be thought of as consisting of water that can, and water that cannot, drain away. 
In seeking to describe the origins of theater, one must rely primarily on speculation, since there is little concrete evidence on which to draw.
To be architecture, a building must achieve a working harmony with a variety of elements.
In the 1930s, wells encountered plentiful water at a depth of about 15 meters; currently, they must be dug to depths of 45 to 60 meters or more.
Moreover, recent research on obsidian tools found at Olmec sites has shown that some of the obsidian obtained by the Olmecs originated near Teotihuac  n. Teotihuac  n obsidian must have been recognized as a valuable commodity for many centuries before the great city arose.
Judging from the width and depth of the channels, the flow rates must have been truly enormous  perhaps as much as a hundred times greater than the 105 tons per second carried by the great Amazon river.
Moreover, our humanness must be sustained through social interaction  and fairly constantly so.
Consequently, the timing and rhythms of biological functions must closely match periodic events like the solar day, the tides, the lunar cycle, and the seasons.
For instance, if a homing pigeon is to navigate with its Sun compass, its clock must be properly set by cues provided by the daylight/darkness cycle.
Therefore, when observational assessment is used as a technique for studying infant perceptual abilities, care must be taken not to overgeneralize from the data or to rely on one or two studies as conclusive evidence of a particular perceptual ability of the infant.
To understand the ancient Mayan people who lived in the area that is today southern Mexico and Central America and the ecological difficulties they faced, one must first consider their environment, which we think of as "jungle" or "tropical rainforest."
The ancient Maya were presumably more experienced and did better, but nevertheless they too must have faced risks of crop failures from droughts and hurricanes.
All else being equal, this means they must exploit larger areas of land than do agriculturalists to secure the same amount of food, clothing, and other necessities.
For a glacier to grow or maintain its mass, there must be sufficient snowfall to match or exceed the annual loss through melting, evaporation, and calving, which occurs when the glacier loses solid chunks as icebergs to the sea or to large lakes.
Any material, including a rocket, must reach this speed before it can leave Earth and go into space.
In the varied and constantly changing light environment of the forest, an animal must be able to send visual signals to members of its own species and at the same time avoid being detected by predators.
The best signal depends not only on its brightness but also on how well it contrasts with the background against which it must be seen.
The areas covered by this material were so vast that the ice that deposited it must have been a continental glacier larger than Greenland or Antarctica.
Extracting heat from very hot, dry rocks presents a more difficult problem: the rocks must be fractured to permit the circulation of water, and the water must be provided artificially.
A final suggestion is that children must begin to develop a "theory of mind"  an awareness of the concept of mental states (feelings, desires, beliefs, and thoughts), their own and those of others  before they can talk about their own past memories.
A few chondrules contain grains that survived the melting event, so these enigmatic chondrules must have formed when compact masses of nebular dust were fused at high temperatures and then cooled before these surviving grains could melt.
Study of the textures of chondrules confirms that they cooled rather quickly, in times measured in minutes or hours, so the heating events that formed them must have been localized.
Chondrules must have been melted in small pockets of the nebula that were able to lose heat rapidly.
Changes in lake level not explained by river flows plus exchanges with the atmosphere must be due to the net difference between what seeps into the lake from the groundwater and what leaks into the groundwater.
For example, a pond in hilly country that maintains a steady water level all through a dry summer in spite of having no streams flowing into it must obviously be seepage dominated.
Ancient fresh water green algae must have evolved features that enable them to withstand extremes of temperature and periods of dryness.
Porosity is important for water-storage capacity, but for water to flow through rocks, the pore spaces must be connected.
In the intergranular spaces of rocks, however, fluid must flow around and between grains in a tortuous path; this winding path causes a resistance to flow.The rate at which the flowing water overcomes this resistance is related to the permeability of rock.
The problem is that competition ordinarily cannot be observed directly but must be inferred from the spread or increase of one species and the concurrent reduction or disappearance of another species.
The Benefits of play must outweigh the costs, or play would not have evolved, according to Darwin  s theory.
Sometimes a closed question must be reopened as new evidence or new arguments based on old evidence come to light.
The question about the rate of evolution must now be turned around: does evolution ever proceed gradually, or does it always occur in short bursts?
In these areas, rainfall per month exceeds that in the above definition, so other factors must contribute to savanna formation. 
If colonizers produce short-lived reproductive propagules, then they must produce very large numbers unless they have an efficient means of dispersal to suitable new habitats.
With the further assumption that these geologic processes were generally no more or less vigorous than they are today, Hutton's examination of sedimentary layers led him to realize that Earth's history must be enormous, that geologic time is an abyss and human history a speck by comparison.
Under the force of gravity, the compression resulting from a collapse of the object must release energy.
From the initial work came a suite of discoveries leading to radio isotopic dating, which quickly led to the realization that Earth must be billions of years old, and to the discovery of nuclear fusion as an energy source capable of sustaining the Sun's luminosity for that amount of time.
Many of those it did catch must have poured out of its open mouth when Forbes reeled it in.
One problem with electron microscopes is that they cannot be used to study living specimens because the specimen must be held in a vacuum chamber; that is, all the air and liquid must be removed.
The most striking of these animals must have been moa.
Studies of how stars evolve suggest that the early Sun was only about 70 percent as luminous as it is now, so the temperature in Venus   early atmosphere must have been quite a bit lower.
To answer the question about Venus   lack of water, we must return to the early history of the planet.
How formidable must a geographic barrier be to keep populations apart?
Its mass is only one-third as great, which means its density must be only one-third as great as well.
This tells us that Callisto has far less of the rocky metallic materials found in the inner planets and must instead be an icy body through much of its interior.
The presence of mammal species that require grassland vegetation has led Arctic biologist Dale Guthrie to argue that while cold and dry, there must have been broad areas of dense vegetation to support herds of mammoth, horse, and bison.
Guthrie has also demonstrated that the landscape must have been subject to intense and continuous winds, especially in winter.
In contrast, the food levels in the deeper layers of the ocean are greatly reduced, and the energy constraints on the animals are much more severe To survive at those levels, animals must maximize their energy input, finding and eating whatever potential food source may be present.
Very large or long teeth provide almost no room for cutting the prey into a convenient size for swallowing, the fish must gulp the prey down whole.
The sheer size of space enclosed within buildings like the basilica of London must have been astonishing.
Since termites are small and soft-bodied, they easily become desiccated and must live in moist places with a high relative humidity.
To explain this sudden increase we cannot point to factors constant in Chinese society but must find conditions or a combination of factors that were newly effective in this period.
This warming, therefore, must be accounted for in interpreting climate change over the past century.
