Wildlife zoologist Helmut Buechner(1953), in reviewing the nature of biotic changes in Washington through recorded time, says that "since the early 1940s, the state has had more deer than at any other time in its history, the winter population fluctuating around approximately 320,000 deer (mule and black-tailed deer), which will yield about 65,000 of either sex and any age annually for an indefinite period."
Only the last of these was suited at all to the continuous operating of machines, and although waterpower abounded in Lancashire and Scotland and ran grain mills as well as textile mills, it had one great disadvantage: streams flowed where nature intended them to, and water-driven factories had to be located on their banks whether or not the location was desirable for other reasons.
Pluto is not included in either category, because its great distance from Earth and its small size make this planet's true nature a mystery.
The orderly nature of our solar system leads most astronomers to conclude that the planets formed at essentially the same time and from the same material as the Sun.
Succession is influenced by many factors: the nature of the soil, exposure to sun and wind, regularity of precipitation, chance colonizations, and many other random processes.
The nature of the climax is influenced by the same factors that influenced succession.
Many find that understanding the general nature of autobiographical memory, that is, memory for events that have occurred in one's own life, can provide some important clues to this mystery.
The nature of plant life in deserts is also highly dependent on the fact that they have to adapt to the prevailing aridity.
Unfortunately, it is in the nature of the archaeological evidence, which is almost invariably only a sample of what once existed, that such figures will always be elusive.
Although church ritual hand sustained an interest in timekeeping throughout the centuries of urban collapse that followed the fall of Rome, church time was nature  s time.
Papermaking spread quickly to Egypt---and eventually to Sicily and Spain---but it was several centuries before paper supplanted parchment for copies of the Koran, probably because of the conservative nature of religious art and its practitioners.
However, James Hutton (1726-1797), known as the founder of modern geology, was the first to have the important insight that geologic processes are cyclic in nature.
With the door opened by Thales and the other early philosophers of Milestus, Greek thinkers began to speculate about the nature of the universe.
It is possible for anyone to create   ideas   about the nature and structure of the universe, for instance, and many times these ideas can be so consistent and elaborately structured, or just so apparently obvious, that they can be persuasive to many people.
The nature of translocation ranges from highly organized and researched national or international programs to as hoc releases of rescued animals by well-intentioned animal lovers.
The fundamental premise of modern architecture was that the appearance of the building should exhibit the nature of its materials and forms of physical support.
There is also a large mass of material, developed below ground as root tissues, but this is less apparent Careful analysis of the aboveground material reveals that it is arranged in a series of layers, the precise number of layers varying with age and the nature of the forest The arrangement of the biological mass (biomass) of the vegetation into layered forms is termed its "structure" (as opposed to its "composition", which refers to the species of organisms forming the community).
Working on their looms, Navajo weavers create images through which they experience harmony with nature it is their means of creating beauty and thereby contributing to the beauty, harmony, and healing of the world.
