Most answers fall back on the theories about the human mind and basic human needs.
Therefore, additional explanations are needed.
Because architecture grows out of human needs and aspirations, it clearly communicates cultural values.
We need to know what aspects of a community are most important to the community  s resistance to destruction, as well as its recovery.
Perhaps the paintings were inspired by the need to increase the supply of animals.
These problems needed still another solution, and the ingredients for it lay close at hand.
The companies building the canals to transport coal needed surveyors to help them find the coal deposits worth mining as well as to determine the best courses for the canals.
Unlike in the Americas, where metallurgy was a very late and limited development, Africans had iron from a relatively early date, developing ingenious furnaces to produce the high heat needed for production and to control the amount of air that reached the carbon and iron ore necessary for making iron.
The teachers in the program described how they found it difficult to put aside the immediate demands of others in order to give themselves the time they needed to develop their reflective skills.
We need therefore to know how much the climate can vary of its own accord in order to interpret with confidence the extent to which recent changes are natural as opposed to being the result of human activities.
Thus we need to be able to include these in our deliberations.
As these experiments show, begging apparently provides a signal of need that parents use to make judgments about which offspring can benefit most from a feeding.
Today, river discharges are increasingly controlled by human intervention, creating a need for international river-basin agreements.
Such programs are much needed because in many arid lands there is only a vague idea of the extent of groundwater resources.
Second, primary groups are fundamental because they provide the settings in which we meet most of our personal needs.
Animals need natural periodic signals like sunrise to maintain a cycle whose period is precisely 24 hours.
For example, reservoirs at the Maya city of Tikal held enough water to meet the drinking water needs of about 10,000 people for a period of 18 months.
Perhaps their rush to adulthood is driven by a simple need to keep warm.
Also, because the molecular motion of a gas depends on temperature, at the low temperatures of the Jovian planets even the lightest gases are unlikely to acquire the speed needed to escape.
New types of ships were needed, new methods of finding one's way, new techniques for financing so vast a scheme.
The imposition of a military base involved the requisition of native lands for both the fort and the territory needed to feed and exercise the soldiers' animals.
Its large population needed food and other supplies.
When not campaigning, soldiers needed to be occupied; otherwise they represented a potentially dangerous source of friction and disloyalty.
Such units recruited on an ad hoc (as needed) basis from the area in which they were stationed, and there was evidently large-scale recruitment within Britain.
In the 1990s enough electricity to meet about half the needs of San Francisco was being generated there.
It would appear that the instability of the climatic conditions led populations that had originally been nomadic to settle down and develop a sedentary style of life, which led in turn to population growth and to the need to increase the amount of food available.
Another suggestion is that before children can talk about past events in their lives, they need to have a reasonable understanding of the self as a psychological entity.
The stress on local resources, especially in the firewood needed for daily cooking and warmth, was particularly intense, and conditions in aggregated pueblos were not very hygienic.
Some scholars expand on this idea by emphasizing a corresponding need for arable land to feed growing numbers of people: construction of small dams, reservoirs, terraces, and field houses indicates  that  farmers  were  intensifying  their  efforts  during  the  1200s. 
In the face of all these pushes, people in the Mesa Verde area had yet another reason to move into communal villages: the need for greater cooperation.
The engine helped solve the problem of draining coal mines of groundwater and increased the production of coal needed to power steam engines elsewhere.
Since the steam engine was fired by coal, the large mills did not need to be located by rivers, as had mills that used water- driven machines.
The technological knowledge needed to carve it was far superior to that for stamp seals, which had happened in the early Neolithic period (approximately 10,000-5000 B.C.E.).
When people today are shown a very ordinary Roman pot and, in particular, are allowed to handle it, they often comment on how modern it looks and feels, and they need to be convinced of its true age.
No serious competition exists when the major needed resource is in superabundant supply, as in most cases of the coexistence of herbivores (plant eaters).
Competition may occur for any needed resource.
Half a century of development was needed before Faraday's discoveries in electricity were translated into full-scale power stations.
Play also stimulates the development of the muscle tissues themselves and may provide the opportunity to practice those movements needed for survival.
Play can also provide practice in social behaviors needed for courtship and mating.
Learning appropriate social behaviors is especially important in species that live in groups, like young monkeys that need to learn to control selfishness and aggression and to understand the give-and-take involved in social groups.
They need to learn how to be dominant and submissive because each monkey might have to play either role in the future.
But a lot more studies like Sheldon  s are needed before we can say for sure.
Society needed a more dependable instrument of time measurement and found it in the mechanical clock. 
Once known, it spread rapidly, driving out water clocks but not solar dials, which were needed to check the new machines against the timekeeper of last resort.
The need to oversee the entire process brought about the emergence of an elite that was eventually transformed into a government.
Within these cities, new forms of livelihood appeared to satisfy the growing need for social services and consumer goods.
Since the highly active worker ants require a great deal of energy, plants exploit this need by providing extrafloral nectar that supplies ants with abundant energy.
No one needed more, and providing for more than one  s needs made little sense.
Last but not least of these considerations is the effort and resources required in this type of action, which need to be justified by evidence of the likely benefits. 
Is translocation successful if the individuals survive the first week or a year, or do they need to reproduce for one or several generations  Whatever the answer, it is clear that a general framework is required to ensure that any translocation is justified, has a realistic chance of success, and will be properly monitored and evaluated for the benefit of future efforts. 
For example, in traditional architecture, stone or brick walls served a structural role, but in a steel-beam building the walls were essentially hung from the internal skeleton of steel beams, which meant that walls and corners no longer needed to be solid but could be opened up in unexpected ways.
But to create usable high-rise buildings, a number of technical challenges needed to be solved.
In addition, when glyphosate is used to control weeds, other, more persistent herbicides do not need to be applied.
On the negative side, opponents of transgenic crops suggest that there are many questions that need to be answered before transgenic crops are grown on a large scale.
Farmers who use Bt transgenics may not feel that they need to follow through with integrated pest-management practices that use beneficial insects and timely applications of pesticides to control insect pests.
A more sustainable approach would be to plant nontransgenic corn, monitor the fields throughout the growing season, and then apply a pesticide only if and when needed.
They need landscapes with strong winds that remove the winter snows, exposing the dry grasses beneath.
Since wind-pollinated flowers have no need to attract insects or other animals, they have dispensed with bright petals, nectar, and scent.
In the chest cavity of this specimen, which is housed in the Senckenberg Museum in Germany, are the fossil remains of conifer needles, twigs, seeds, and fruits.
Information on past climates is primary of relevance to archaeology because of what it tells us about the effects on the land and on the resources that people needed to survive.
