Timberline trees are normally evergreens, suggesting that these have some advantage over deciduous trees (those that lose their leaves) in the extreme environments of the upper timberline.
Research has shown that certain minerals are required by plants for normal growth and development.
Even nitrogen, which is a gas in its elemental state, is normally absorbed from the soil as nitrate ions.
Scientists have known for some time that certain plants, called hyperaccumulators, can concentrate minerals at levels a hundredfold or greater than normal.
As the basin was refilled, normal marine organisms returned.
Statues were normally made of stone, wood, or metal.
The stone between the arms and the body and between the legs in standing figures or the legs and the seat in seated ones was not normally cut away.
Early in his research, Kramer found that caged migratory birds became very restless at about the time they would normally have begun migration in the wild.
Furthermore, he noticed that as they fluttered around in the cage, they often launched themselves in the direction of their normal migratory route.
When the planetarium sky matched the sky outside, the birds fluttered in the direction of their normal migration.
When experimentally deprived baby robins are placed in a nest with normally fed siblings, the hungry nestlings beg more loudly than usual  but so do their better-fed siblings, though not as loudly as the hungrier birds.
This is useful for irrigation, but the high temperatures, low humidities, and different day lengths of the dry season, compared to the normal growing season, can present difficulties with some crops.
Most desert streambeds are normally dry, but they occasionally receive large flows of water and sediment.
The mineral content of groundwater normally increases with the depth, but even quite shallow aquifers can be highly saline.
For instance, apparently normal daily periods of biological activity were maintained for about a week by the fungus Neurospora when it was intentionally isolated from all geophysical timing cues while orbiting in a space shuttle.
Such an external cue not only coordinates an animal's daily rhythms with particular features of the local solar day but also  because it normally does so day after day-seems to keep the internal clock's period close to that of Earth's rotation.
Inequalities of wealth and rank certainly exist, and have probably existed in most pastoralist societies, but except in periods of military conquest, they are normally too slight to generate the stable, hereditary hierarchies that are usually implied by the use of the term class.
The possibility that mass extinctions may recur periodically has given rise to such hypotheses as that of a companion star with a long-period orbit deflecting other bodies from their normal orbits, making some of them fall to Earth as meteors and causing widespread devastation upon impact.
Volunteers were told to think about yawning while they breathed either normal air, pure oxygen, or an air mixture with an above-normal level of carbon dioxide.
Newly raised regiments were normally transferred to another province from whence it was unlikely that individual recruits would ever return.
The period from 3000 to 1000 B.C.E., when the use of bronze became widespread, is normally referred to as the Bronze Age.
This is especially true when play consists of practicing normal aggressive or predatory behaviors.
If it seems difficult to conceive how major changes could occur rapidly, consider this: An alteration of a single gene in flies is enough to turn a normal fly with a single pair of wings into one that has two pairs of wings.
So even under normal situations the gene flow among the subpopulations is more of an intermittent trickle than a steady stream.
Pioneer species--- those that occur only in the earliest stages of colonization--- tend to have high rates of invasion because they produce very large numbers of reproductive propagules (seeds, spores, and so on) and because they have an efficient means of dispersal (normally, wind).
Melanics were normally quickly eliminated in nonindustrial areas by adverse selection; birds spotted them easily.
Kettlewell hypothesized that the normal pale forms are difficult to see when resting on lichen-covered trees, whereas dark forms are conspicuous.
Although the troops appeared to undergo initial problems, causing them to split up, all the tracked females settled into normal behavioral patterns. 
Every year during the months of December and January, a weak, warm countercurrent replaces the normally cold coastal waters.
While the warm-water countercurrent usually lasts for two months or less, there are occasions when the disruption to the normal flow lasts for many months.
Even though mean levels may mask much higher local concentrations, it is still the case that many deep-sea animals are exposed to conditions in which a normal filter-feeder would starve
