This is because the gaps among the original grains are often not totally plugged with cementing chemicals; also, parts of the original grains may become dissolved by percolating groundwater, either while consolidation is taking place or at any time afterwards.
But note that porosity is not the same as permeability, which measures the ease with which water can flow through a material; this depends on the sizes of the individual cavities and the crevices linking them.
The total volume of water in the saturated sample must therefore be thought of as consisting of water that can, and water that cannot, drain away. 
Thus, fantasy or fiction (of which drama is one form) permits people to objectify their anxieties and fears, confront them, and fulfill their hopes in fiction if not fact.
Late-lying snow reduces the effective growing season to the point where seedlings cannot establish themselves.
Probably the most important environmental factor is temperature, for if the growing season is too short and temperatures are too low, tree shoots and buds cannot mature sufficiently to survive the winter months.
They breathe through lungs, not through gills, and give birth to live young.
Their streamlined bodies, the absence of hind legs, and the presence of a fluke1 and blowhole2 cannot disguise their affinities with land dwelling mammals.
However, unlike the cases of sea otters and pinnipeds (seals, sea lions, and walruses, whose limbs are functional both on land and at sea), it is not easy to envision what the first whales looked like.
The river that formed these deposits was actually not far from an ancient ocean known as the Tethys Sea.
It has been suggested that Pakicetus fed on fish in shallow water and was not yet adapted for life in the open ocean.
The expansion of desert-like conditions into areas where they did not previously exist is called desertification.
The cinema did not emerge as a form of mass consumption until its technology evolved from the initial "peepshow" format to the point where images were projected on a screen in a darkened theater.
It is the work of architects to create buildings that are not simply constructions but also offer inspiration and delight.
The first problem is that ecologists do not all agree what   stability   means.
Even the kind of stability defined as simple lack of change is not always associated with maximum diversity.
At least in temperate zones, maximum diversity is often found in mid-successional stages, not in the climax community.
In general, diversity, by itself, does not ensure stability.
Mathematical models of ecosystems likewise suggest that diversity does not guarantee ecosystem stability  just the opposite, in fact.
Many ecologists now think that the relative long-term stability of climax communities comes not from diversity but from the   patchiness   of the environment, an environment that varies from place to place supports more kinds of organisms than an environment that is uniform.
One compensation for not hibernating is the built-in urge to migrate.
They had experienced great difficulty finding game west of the Rockies and not until the second of December did they kill their first elk.
Upper Paleolithic art was not confined to cave paintings.
Although most plants cannot survive in these soils, certain plants have the ability to tolerate high levels of these minerals.
Because all Polynesians, Micronesians, and many Melanesians speak Austronesian languages and grow crops derived from Southeast Asia, all these peoples most certainly derived from that region and not the New World or elsewhere.
Why does the fossil record not document the series of evolutionary changes during the evolution of animals?
One interpretation regarding the absence of fossils during this important 100-million-year period is that early animals were soft bodied and simply did not fossilize.
These fossil beds provide evidence of about 32 modern animal groups, plus about 20 other animal body forms that are so different from any modern animals that they cannot be assigned to any one of the modern groups.
Fossil formations like the Burgess Shale show that evolution cannot always be thought of as a slow progression.
Until the reign of George   (1760-1820), available sources of power for work and travel had not increased since the Middle Ages.
Only the last of these was suited at all to the continuous operating of machines, and although waterpower abounded in Lancashire and Scotland and ran grain mills as well as textile mills, it had one great disadvantage: streams flowed where nature intended them to, and water-driven factories had to be located on their banks whether or not the location was desirable for other reasons.
The new age of machinery, in short, could not have been born without a new source of both movable and constant power.
The source had long been known but not exploited.
This   atmospheric engine,   invented by Thomas Savery and vastly improved by his partner, Thomas Newcomen, embodied revolutionary principles, but it was so slow and wasteful of fuel that it could not be employed outside the coal mines for which it had been designed.
In the 1760s, James Watt perfected a separate condenser for the steam, so that the cylinder did not have to be cooled at every stroke; then he devised a way to make the piston turn a wheel and thus convert reciprocating (back and forth) motion into rotary motion.
Steam power did not merely spin cotton and roll iron; early in the new century, it also multiplied ten times over the amount of paper that a single worker could produce in a day.
Steam also promised to eliminate a transportation problem not fully solved by either canal boats or turnpikes.
Boats could carry heavy weights, but canals could not cross hilly terrain; turnpikes could cross the hills, but the roadbeds could not stand up under great weights.
In 1831 when Smith was finally recognized by the Geological Society of London as the   father of English geology,   it was not only for his maps but also for something even more important.
Soon it was realized that this principle of faunal (animal) succession was valid not only in England or France but virtually everywhere.
The sheer passage of time does not account for it; adults have excellent recognition of pictures of people who attended high school with them 35 years earlier.
Another seemingly plausible explanation  that infants do not form enduring memories at this point in development  also is incorrect.
While such repression may occur, people cannot remember ordinary events from the infant and toddler periods either.
The brain  s level of physiological maturation may support these types of memories, but not ones requiring explicit verbal descriptions. 
However, hearing such stories is not sufficient for younger children to form enduring memories.
Telling such stories to two year olds does not seem to produce long-lasting verbalizable memories.
Older children and adults often try to retrieve the names of things they saw, but infants would not have encoded the information verbally.
These three explanations of infantile amnesia are not mutually exclusive; indeed, they support each other.
Physiological immaturity may be part of why infants and toddlers do not form extremely enduring memories, even when they hear stories that promote such remembering in preschoolers.
Of course, the contrast is not quite so stark: in Alexander the Great the Greeks had found the greatest territorial conqueror of all time; and the Romans, once they moved outside Italy, did not fail to learn the lessons of sea power.
Agriculture seems to have reached these people from the Near East, since the first domesticated crops were millets and sorghums whose origins are not African but west Asian.
Data from diverse sources, including geochemical evidence preserved in seafloor sediments, indicate that the Late Cretaceous climate was milder than today  s. The days were not too hot, nor the nights too cold.
The summers were not too warm, nor the winters too frigid.
Perhaps dinosaurs could not tolerate these extreme temperature changes and became extinct.
It  s hard to understand why they would not be affected, whereas dinosaurs were left too crippled to cope, especially if, as some scientists believe, dinosaurs were warm-blooded.
Critics also point out that the shallow seaways had retreated from and advanced on the continents numerous times during the Mesozoic, so why did the dinosaurs survive the climatic changes associated with the earlier fluctuations but not with this one?
Ir has not been common at Earth  s since the very beginning of the planet  s history.
However, other reliable evidence suggests that the deposition of the boundary clay could not have taken one million years.
They appear only in equatorial regions and generally do not form extensive interconnected networks.
He persuasively argued that such an ice-free corridor did not exist until much later, when the continental ice began its final retreat. 
Until the early 1970s,most archaeologists did not consider the coast a possible migration route into the Americas because geologists originally believed that during the last Ice Age the entire Northwest Coast was covered by glacial ice.
Research now indicates that sizable areas of southeastern Alaska along the inner continental shelf were not covered by ice toward the end of the last Ice Age.
Reflection on a complex task such as teaching is not easy.
They describe the initial understanding in the teachers with whom they were working as being   utilitarian    and not rich or detailed enough to drive systematic reflection.
Support and encouragement were also required to help teachers in the program cope with aspects of their professional life with which they were not comfortable.
Wildman and Niles make a summary comment:   Perhaps the most important thing we learned is the idea of the teacher-as-reflective-practitioner will not happen simply because it is a good or even compelling idea.   
These are not single individual plants; each one is a symbiotic combination of an alga and a fungus.
Instrumental records do not go back far enough to provide us with reliable measurements of global climatic variability on timescales longer than a century.
Some current analyses conclude that volcanoes and solar activity explain quite a considerable amount of the observed variability in the period from the seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries, but that they cannot be invoked to explain the rapid warming in recent decades.
Populations cannot grow unless the rural economy can produce enough additional food to feed more people.
Such villages, however, generally lay in regions of relatively advanced agricultural production, permitting not only the survival of peasants but also the accumulation of an agricultural surplus for investment.
In fact, a lack of understanding concerning the purposes of Egyptian art has often led it to be compared unfavorably with the art of other cultures: Why did the Egyptians not develop sculpture in which the body turned and twisted through space like classical Greek statuary?
And why did they not discover the geometric perspective as European artists did in the Renaissance?
Statues were created not for their decorative effect but to play a primary role in the cults of the gods, the king, and the dead.
The stone between the arms and the body and between the legs in standing figures or the legs and the seat in seated ones was not normally cut away.
The question is not why they would leave the cold of winter so much as how they find their way around.
These higher-frequency sounds do not travel as far, and so may better conceal the individuals producing them, who are especially vulnerable to predators in their ground nests.
When experimentally deprived baby robins are placed in a nest with normally fed siblings, the hungry nestlings beg more loudly than usual  but so do their better-fed siblings, though not as loudly as the hungrier birds.
The answer lies apparently not in the increased energy costs of exaggerated begging  such energy costs are small relative to the potential gain in calories  but rather in the damage that any successful cheater would do to its siblings, which share genes with one another.
Most engravings, for example, are best lit from the left, as befits the work of right-handed artists, who generally prefer to have the light source on the left so that the shadow of their hand does not fall on the tip of the engraving tool or brush.
In the few cases where an Ice Age figure is depicted holding something, it is mostly, though not always, in the right hand.
The part of the brain responsible for fine control and movement is located in the left cerebral hemisphere, and the findings above suggest that the human brain was already asymmetrical in its structure and function not long after 2 million years ago.
The introduction of new screen formats was put off for a quarter century, and color, though utilized over the next two decades for special productions, also did not become a norm until the 1950s.
To be sure, their evaluation of the technical flaws in 1920s sound experiments was not so far off the mark, yet they neglected to take into account important new forces in the motion picture field that, in a sense, would not take no for an answer.
In 1929 the United States motion picture industry released more than 300 sound films  a rough figure, since a number were silent films with music tracks, or films prepared in dual versions, to take account of the many cinemas not yet wired for sound.
Rainfall is not completely absent in desert areas, but it is highly variable.
Endogenous rivers often do not reach the sea but drain into inland basins, where the water evaporates or is lost in the ground.
Most limestone and sandstone aquifers are deep and extensive but may contain groundwaters that are not being recharged.
Water does not remain immobile in an aquifer but can seep out at springs or leak into other aquifers.
The rate of movement may be very slow: in the Indus plain, the movement of saline (salty) groundwaters has still not reached equilibrium after 70 years of being tapped.
Like almost all daily cycles of animals deprived of environmental cues, those measured for the horseshoe crabs in these conditions were not exactly 24 hours.
Such a rhythm whose period is approximately  but not exactly  a day is called circadian.
Such an external cue not only coordinates an animal's daily rhythms with particular features of the local solar day but also  because it normally does so day after day-seems to keep the internal clock's period close to that of Earth's rotation.
Because they cannot verbalize or fill out questionnaires, indirect techniques of naturalistic observation are used as the primary means of determining what infants can see, hear, feel, and so forth.
First, the observation may be unreliable in that two or more observers may not agree that the particular response occurred, or to what degree it occurred.
The third, and most potent, limitation is that it is not possible to be certain that the infant's response was due to the stimulus presented or to a change from no stimulus to a stimulus.
Therefore, when observational assessment is used as a technique for studying infant perceptual abilities, care must be taken not to overgeneralize from the data or to rely on one or two studies as conclusive evidence of a particular perceptual ability of the infant.
Children have strong imaginations and the use of fantasy brings their ideas to life, but children may not be adept enough to realize that what they are viewing is unreal.
Regarding the appearance of celebrities in advertisements that do not involve host selling, the evidence is mixed.
A study of children in Hong Kong, however, found that the presence of celebrities in advertisements could negatively affect the children's perceptions of a product if the children did not like the celebrity in question.
It initially surprises us that many of their cities were not built next to the rivers but instead on high terrain in rolling uplands.
The remarkable mobility and range of pastoral societies explain, in part, why so many linguists have argued that the Indo-European languages began their astonishing expansionist career not among farmers in Anatolia (present-day Turkey), but among early pastoralists from Inner Eurasia.
Such theories imply that the Indo-European languages evolved not in Neolithic (10,000 to 3,000 B.C.)
If you are constantly on the move, you cannot afford to accumulate large material surpluses.
Leatherbacks apparently do not generate internal heat the way we do, or the way birds do, as a by-product of cellular metabolism.
Gigantothermy, though, would not be enough to keep a leatherback warm in cold northern waters.
It is not enough for whales, which supplement it with a thick layer of insulating blubber (fat).
Leatherbacks do not have blubber, but they do have a reptilian equivalent: thick, oil-saturated skin, with a layer of fibrous, fatty tissue just beneath it.
There is not much that the turtle can do about this without compromising the aerodynamic shape of the flipper.
The leatherback is certainly not the only animal with such an arrangement; gulls have a countercurrent exchange in their legs.
We do not know how old, or how large, a leatherback has to be before it can switch from a cold-blooded to a warm-blooded mode of life.
In the meantime, however, this ice is not static.
Throughout most of Earth  s history, glaciers did not exist, but at the present time about 10 percent of Earth  s land surface is covered by glaciers.
The growth of independent guilds was furthered by the fact that surplus was not a result of domestic craft production but resulted primarily from international trading; the government left working people to govern themselves, much as shepherds of tribal confederacies were left alone by their leaders.
When the German chemist Lothar Meyer and (independently) the Russian Dmitry Mendeleyev first introduced the periodic table in 1869-70, one-third of the naturally occurring chemical elements had not yet been discovered.
In fact, subsequent work has shown that in a periodic table, elements should not be ordered strictly by atomic mass.
We now know that atomic number (the number of protons in the nucleus), not atomic mass number (the number of protons and neutrons), determines chemical behavior.
It was therefore quite surprising when John William Strut (Lord Rayleigh, discovered a gaseous element in 1894 that did not fit into the previous classification scheme.
A century earlier, Henry Cavendish had noted the existence of a residual gas when oxygen and nitrogen are removed from air, but its importance had not been realized.
Ramsay then studied a gas that was present in natural gas deposits and discovered that it was helium, an element whose presence in the Sun had been noted earlier in the spectrum of sunlight but that had not previously been known on Earth.
Pluto is not included in either category, because its great distance from Earth and its small size make this planet's true nature a mystery.
Europe's maritime tradition had developed in the context of easily navigable seas  the Mediterranean, the Baltic, and, to a lesser extent, the North Sea between England and the Continent  not of vast oceans.
Spices not only dramatically improved the taste of the European diet but also were used to manufacture perfumes and certain medicines.
It operated by measuring the height of the Sun and the fixed stars: by calculating the angles created by these points, it determined the degree of latitude at which one stood (The problem of determining longitude, though, was not solved until the eighteenth century.)
In the green-to-yellow lighting conditions of the lowest levels of the forest, yellow and green would be the brightest colors, but when an animal is signaling, these colors would not be very visible if the animal was sitting in an area with a yellowish or greenish background.
The best signal depends not only on its brightness but also on how well it contrasts with the background against which it must be seen.
In forests, visual signals can be seen only at short distances, where they are not obstructed by trees.
Meanwhile, the deadliest strains of the virus perished with their hosts as natural selection favored strains that could infect hosts but not kill them.
It is difficult to imagine how this could affect the cattle, but the relationship may help or hinder them in some way not yet recognized.
In view of their later start and their lack of coal  undoubtedly the main reason they were not among the early industrializers  it is important to understand the sources of their success.
Another flaw of the tiredness theory is that yawning does not raise alertness or physiological activity, as the theory would predict.
But, while accepting that not everything in life can be explained by Darwinian evolution, there are sound reasons for being skeptical of theories like this one, which avoid the issue of what yawning does for adults.
Areas rapidly incorporated into the empire were not long affected by the military.
When not campaigning, soldiers needed to be occupied; otherwise they represented a potentially dangerous source of friction and disloyalty.
There was informal marriage with soldiers, who until AD 197 were not legally entitled to wed, and whole new communities grew up near the forts.
Clements and other early ecologists saw almost lawlike regularity in the order of succession, but that has not been substantiated.
The final stage of a succession, called the climax by Clements and early ecologists, is likewise not predictable or of uniform composition.
The spruce community is not substantially affected by either the presence or absence of moose.
Prior to 1815, western farmers who did not live on navigable waterways were connected to them only by dirt roads and mountain trails.
Steamboats were not only faster but also transported upriver freight for about one tenth of what it had previously cost on hand-propelled keelboats.
Many complex factors led to the adoption of the new economies, not only at Abu Hureyra, but at many other locations such as 'Ain Ghazal, also in Syria, where goat toe bones showing the telltale marks of abrasion caused by foot tethering (binding) testify to early herding of domestic stock.
These waters present a disposal problem if they are not returned to the ground from which they were removed.
Geothermal energy is in a sense not renewable, because in most cases the heat would be drawn out of a reservoir much more rapidly than it would be replaced by the very slow geological processes by which heat flows through solid rock into a heat reservoir.
Geothermal energy probably will not make large-scale contributions to the world energy budget until well into the twenty-first century, if ever.
It could be argued, however, that these conditions are not sufficient to explain the origins of agriculture.
Earth had experienced previous periods of climatic change, and yet agriculture had not been developed.
The fact that some societies domesticated animals and plants, discovered the use of metal tools, became literate, and developed a state should not make us forget that others developed pastoralism or horticulture (vegetable gardening) but remained illiterate and at low levels of productivity; a few entered the modern period as hunting and gathering societies.
Most people are not able to recount memories for experiences prior to the age of three years, a phenomenon called infantile amnesia.
However, even children with low verbal skills showed evidence of remembering the event; thus, memories may be facilitated by but are not dependent on those verbal skills.
A third possibility is that children will not be able to tell their own "life story" until they understand something about the general form stories take, that is, the structure of narratives.
In particular, and quite logically, the art of painting was forever changed, though not always in the ways one might have expected.
The daguerreotype was a unique image that reproduced what was in front of the camera lens in minute, unselective detail and could not be duplicated.
It seems very unlikely that large portions of the nebula were heated to such extreme temperatures, and huge nebula areas could not possibly have lost heat so fast.
However, studies of the textures of inclusions reveal that the order in which the minerals appeared in the inclusions varies from inclusion to inclusion, and often does not match the theoretical condensation sequence for those metals.
The burning of fuel, such as by cars, is not the only source of this increased heat.
However, what is astonishing about this is not that Dutch agriculture was affected by critical phenomena such as a decrease in sales and production, but the fact that the crisis appeared only relatively late in Dutch agriculture.
And has not twentieth-century art shown that naturalism does not necessarily follow abstraction in some kind of predetermine sequence?
Changes in lake level not explained by river flows plus exchanges with the atmosphere must be due to the net difference between what seeps into the lake from the groundwater and what leaks into the groundwater.
By whatever means, a lake is constantly gaining water and losing water: its water does not just sit there, or, anyway, not for long.
But that is not all that changes.
Finally, the coughing reflex in reaction to irritants in the airway produces not a cough during sleep but a cessation of breathing.
Abandoning small extended-family households to move into these large pueblos with dozens if not hundreds of other people was probably traumatic.
The stress on local resources, especially in the firewood needed for daily cooking and warmth, was particularly intense, and conditions in aggregated pueblos were not very hygienic.
The environmental changes associated with this transition are not fully understood, but people living closest to the San Juan Mountains, to the northeast of Mesa Verde, were affected first.
In the early sixteenth century the shortage of rowers was not serious because the demand for galleys was limited by a move to round ships (round-hulled ships with more cargo space), with required fewer rowers.
Even though sailors' wages doubled among the northern Italian cities from 1550 to 1590, this did not elicit an increased supply.
This would not be true of red and brown algae.
The terrestrial world is green now, but it did not start out that way.
Other adaptations occurred later in the transition to terrestrial life and now wide spread but not universal among plants.
Unlike aquatic and marine forms, land plants cannot always rely on water currents to carry their sex cells and disperse their fertilized eggs.
Great Britain had large amounts of coal; however, there were not yet efficient means by which to produce mechanical energy or to power machinery.
Since the steam engine was fired by coal, the large mills did not need to be located by rivers, as had mills that used water- driven machines.
It is not unusual for the roots of some desert perennials to extend downward more than ten meters.
For example, the ostrich has plumage that is so constructed that the feathers are long but not too dense.
At first sight, the plain did not appear to be a likely home for a civilization.
A more economical approach was to use a sign to express not a whole word but a single syllable.
Earth  s surface is not made up of a single sheet of rock that forms a crust but rather a number of   tectonic plates   that fit closely, like the pieces of a giant jigsaw puzzle.
Although this idea was not immediately accepted, the dating of lavas in the Hawaii (and other) chains showed that their ages increase away from the presently active volcano, just as Daly had suggested.
The answer is not as simple as might be thought.
Careful studies have demonstrated, however, that this not the case.
The wolves eat mostly old or diseased animals that would not survive long anyway.
However, if safe areas like those prey animals have in the wild are provided, the prey population drops to low levels but not to extinction.
However, the cycle was retained if either of the factors was allowed to operate alone: if predators were excluded but food was not added (food effect alone), or if food was added in the presence of predators (predator effect alone).
In some cases, the water table reaches Earth's surface, where it is expressed as rivers, lakes, and marshes.Typically, though, the water table may be tens or hundreds of meters below the surface.The water table is not flat but usually follows the contours of the topography.
Because the surface of the water table is not flat but instead rises and falls with topography, groundwater is affected by gravity in the same fashion as surface water.
Rubs are created about one to two months before the breeding season (the rut).Hence for a long time biologists believed that male deer used buck rubs not only to clean and polish antlers but also to provide practice for the ensuing male-to-male combat during the rut.
This is not just an aesthetic consideration but also a practical one.These vessels are solid (brittle, but not fragile), they are pleasant and easy to handle (being light and smooth), and, with their hard and sometimes glossy (smooth and shiny) surfaces, they hold liquids well and are easy to wash.
It has been estimated that Monte Testaccio contains the remains of some 53 million amphorae, in which around 6,000 million liters of oil were imported into the city from overseas, imports into imperial Rome were supported by the full might of the state and were therefore quite exceptional  but the size of the operations at Monte Testaccio, and the productivity and complexity that lay behind them, nonetheless cannot fail to impress.
Roman pottery was transported not only in large quantities but also over substantial distances.
Furthermore, most species do not depend entirely on a single resource, if the major resource for a species becomes scarce, the species can usually shift to alternative resources.
The problem is that competition ordinarily cannot be observed directly but must be inferred from the spread or increase of one species and the concurrent reduction or disappearance of another species.
Numerous seeming exceptions to this law have since been found, but they can usually be explained as cases in which the two species, even though competing for a major joint resource, did not really occupy exactly the same niche.
Thus, whether play occurs or not depends on the intention of the animal, and intentions are not always clear from behavior alone.
Exactly why animals play is still a matter debated in the research literature, and the reasons may not be the same for every species that plays.
Determining the functions of play is difficult because the functions may be long-term, with beneficial effects not showing up until the animal  s adulthood.
Play is not without considerable costs to the individual animal.
The Benefits of play must outweigh the costs, or play would not have evolved, according to Darwin  s theory.
Other studies have shown that greater stimulation not only affects the size of the brain but also increases the number of connections between the nerve cells.
Play allows a young animal to explore its environment and practice skills in comparative safety since the surrounding adults generally do not expect the young do deal with threats or predators.
There is a danger, of course, that play may be misinterpreted or not recognized as play by others, potentially leading to aggression.
Both these devices worked well in sunny climates; but in Northern Europe the sun may be hidden by clouds for weeks at a time, while temperatures vary not only seasonally but from day to night.
We do not know who invented this machine, or where.
Once known, it spread rapidly, driving out water clocks but not solar dials, which were needed to check the new machines against the timekeeper of last resort.
The Catholic Church resisted, not coming over to the new hours for about a century.
Physical separation between subpopulations promotes the formation of new species because once the members of one subpopulation can no longer mate with members of another subpopulation, they cannot exchange variant genes that arise in one of the subpopulations.
Eventually the subpopulations become so genetically distinct that they cannot interbreed even if the physical barriers between them were removed.
This should not be surprising, since allopatry is pretty common.
In other groups, however, genetic divergences had not proceeded so far, and the descendants could still interbreed   for them, reproductive isolation was not completed, and so speciation had not occurred. 
First, at least some of the observed differences between the enzymes of the Atlantic and Pacific fish populations were not random but were the result of evolutionary adaptation.
Whether Head Start is seen as successful or not depends on the lens through which ore is looking.
Preschoolers who participate in Head Start are better prepared for future schooling than those who do not.
For instance, compared with children who did not participate in early intervention programs, participants in various programs showed gains in emotional or cognitive development, better educational outcomes, increased economic self-sufficiency, reduced level of criminal activity, and improved health-related behaviors.
Of course, not every program produced all these benefits, and not every child benefited to the same extent.
Consequently, children of a particular age cannot be expected to master educational material without taking into account their current level of cognitive development.
Such conditions prevail throughout much of northern South America and Cuba, but many Central American savannas as well as coastal areas of Brazil and the island of Trinidad do not fit this pattern.
Are cannot penetrate between the soil particles, making the soil oxygen-poor.
Experiments suggest that if fire did not occur in savannas in the Americas, species composition would change significantly.
Once the humus layer disappears, nutrients cannot be recycled and leach from the soil, converting soil from fertile to infertile and making it suitable only for savanna vegetation.
Many plants depend on wind for dispersal and produce abundant quantities of small, relatively short-lived seeds to compensate for the fact that wind is not always a reliable means of reaching the appropriate type of habitat.
More economic variation took shape in rural villages, as some grew prosperous from farming while others did not.
Hubbell and Johnson observed that some species of stingless bees are highly aggressive to members of their species from other colonies, while other species are not.
The number of colonies in the study area was not limited by availability of suitable trees, and a clumped or regular distribution of colonies was not due to an underlying clumped or regular distribution of potential nest sites.
The fifth species was not aggressive, and its nests were randomly distributed over the study area.
Bees did not appear to be injured in these fights, which were apparently ritualized.
The advantage was that crops grown in such areas were not as dependent on rainfall and therefore produced a more reliable harvest.
As time went on, such communities gradually learned how to direct the flow of water to enhance the productive capacity of the land, while the introduction of the iron plow eventually led to the cultivation of heavy soils not previously susceptible to agriculture.
How the first governments took shape in these areas is not certain, but anthropologists studying the evolution of human communities in various parts of the world have discovered that one common stage in the process is the emergence of what are called   big men   within a single village or a collection of villages.
Because eastern plows could not penetrate the densely tangled roots of prairie grass, the earliest settlers erected farms along the boundary separating the forest from the prairie.
By the 1850s McCormick was selling 1,000 reapers a year and could not keep up with demand, while Deere turned out 10,000 plows annually.
Prairie farmers also introduced new crops that were not part of the earlier ecological system, notably wheat, along with fruits and vegetables.
In the absence of these fires, trees reappeared on land not in cultivation and, if undisturbed, eventually formed woodlots.
It was not until the Cambrian period, beginning about 600 million years ago, that a great proliferation of macroscopic species occurred on Earth and produced a fossil record that allows us to track the rise and fall of biodiversity.
Nevertheless, climatic explanations for the K-T extinction are not really challenged by the ideas that dinosaurs may have been endothermic, because even endotherms can be affected by a significant change in the climate.
Writing in ink on paper, unlike parchment, could not easily be erased, and therefore paper had the advantage that it was difficult to alter what was written on it.
This in turn allowed the easy transfer of artistic ideas and motifs over great distances, from one medium to another, and in a different scale in ways that had been difficult, if not impossible, in the previous period. 
Coal was not used, however, to produce mechanical energy or to power machinery.
Without their colorful corolla, flowers do not attract pollinators and are not fertilized.
Although ants are not big enough to kill or seriously injure grasshoppers, they drive them away by nipping at their feet.
It was not until the seventeenth century that attempts were made again to understand clues to Earth's history through the rock record.
It had been recognized by the German philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724-1804) that chemical reactions could not supply the tremendous amount of energy flowing from the Sun for more than about a millennium.
Hierarchies that did not exist in earlier foraging groups but that were helpful in structuring cooperative labor and in organizing more-complex technologies probably became established, even before domestication and agriculture, as pre-Neolithic societies (before the tenth millennium B C E) reacted to the population increase.
Moreover, through no fault of his own, Forbes was not particularly successful at sampling such life as did exist at the bottom of the Aegean.
Coal from industry released large amounts of black soot into the environment, but the increase of the dark-colored forms was not due to genetic mutations caused by industrial pollution.
For example, caterpillars that feed on soot-covered leaves did not give rise to dark- colored adults Rather, pollution promoted the survival of dark forms on soot-covered trees.
Many others had asked the same question before him, but Thales based his answer strictly on what he had observed and what he could reason out--not on imaginative stories about the gods or the supernatural.
Although he did not accept that water was the prime element, he did believe that all life originated in the sea, and he was thus one of the first to conceive of this important idea.
The world, according to Anaximenes, was not composed of either water or apeiron, but air itself was the fundamental element of the universe.
The Greeks, from Thales to Plato and Aristotle, were philosophers and not scientists in today  s sense.
Last but not least of these considerations is the effort and resources required in this type of action, which need to be justified by evidence of the likely benefits. 
This is partly because many translocations have not been strictly for conservation; neither have they been official nor legal, let alone scientific in their approach.
Reviewing translocation of amphibians and reptiles, researchers C.Kenneth Dodd and Richard A. Siegel concluded that most projects have not demonstrated success as conservation techniques and should not be advocated as though they were acceptable management and mitigation practices.
Nonetheless, modern architects did not simply employ these new materials in a strictly practical fashion---they consciously exploited their aesthetic possibilities.
A structure built with steel beams protected by terra-cotta tiles was still three times lighter than a comparably sized building that used masonry construction, so the weight of the tiles was not a problem.
The light microscope cannot resolve detail finer than 0.2 micrometers, about the size of the smallest bacterium; consequently, no matter how many times its image of such a bacterium is magnified, the light microscope cannot show the details of the cell  s internal structure.
Nonetheless, they have not replaced the light microscope.
One problem with electron microscopes is that they cannot be used to study living specimens because the specimen must be held in a vacuum chamber; that is, all the air and liquid must be removed.
The expansion of agriculture, however, does not necessarily lead to rapid increases in their abundance.
Even though raccoons may not have been a significant part of their diet, wolves surely would have tried to prey on those exposed in relatively treeless areas.
In addition, when glyphosate is used to control weeds, other, more persistent herbicides do not need to be applied.
However, field tests indicate that Bt corn is not likely to harm monarchs.
This scenario is not likely to occur in many instances because there are no weedy relatives growing near the crop plant.
Farmers who use Bt transgenics may not feel that they need to follow through with integrated pest-management practices that use beneficial insects and timely applications of pesticides to control insect pests.
The clay tablets usually were not fired; sun drying was probably reckoned enough to preserve the text for as long as it was being used.
His goal is not just to survive his ordeals but to make sense of this life.
Egypt gave us the tradition of the scribe not just as educated person but as artist and calligrapher.
After the separation, any creature unable to cross a considerable distance of ocean could not migrate to New Zealand.
Vegetation was considerably altered by the Maori occupation of New Zealand, a change not easily explained by climate variation or other possible factors.
Another factor is that the United States Forest Service in the first decade of the 1900s adopted the policy of fire suppression (attempting to put out forest fires) for the obvious reason that it did not want valuable timber to go up in smoke, or people  s homes and lives to be threatened.
The strength of the Athenian aristocracy was further weakened during the rest of the century by the rise of a type of government known as a tyranny, which is a form of interim rule by a popular strongman (not rule by a ruthless dictator as the modem use of the term suggests to us).
The tropics contain a larger surface area of land than higher latitudes  a fact that is not always evident when we examine commonly used projections of Earth's curved surface, since this tends to exaggerate the areas of land in the higher latitudes-and some biogeographers regard the differences in diversity as a reflection of this effect But an analysis of the data by biologist Klaus Rohde does not support this explanation.
Although area may contribute to biodiversity, it is certainly not the whole story; otherwise, large landmasses would always be richer in species.
However, the idea that amphibians have no control whatsoever over their body temperature has been proven false because their body temperature does not always correspond to the surrounding temperature.
Most amphibian skin is fully water permeable and is therefore not a barrier against evaporation or solar radiation.
The effect of thigmothermy is especially evident in the Andean toad during rainfall its body temperature corresponds to the temperature of the warm earth and not to the much cooler air temperature.
As relative newcomers to the Southwest, a place where their climate, neighbors, and rulers could be equally inhospitable, the Navajo created these art forms to affect the world around them, not just through the recounting of the actions symbolized, but through the beauty and harmony of the artworks themselves.
Such connections, and the trading expeditions to maintain them, could not be organized by individual villages.
There may or may not have been a market organization.
Biologist Ernst Mayr defined a species as "an actually or potentially interbreeding population that does not interbreed with other such populations when there is opportunity to do so."
The passage of wind-blown tree pollen is also not hindered by such barriers, and the seeds of many plants may be carried back and forth on animals.
Geographic isolation creates opportunities for new species to develop, but it does not necessarily lead to new species because speciation occurs only when the gene pool undergoes enough changes to establish reproductive barriers between the isolated population and its parent population.
Some explanations (such as the one stating that dinosaurs all died of diseases) fail because there is no way to scientifically test them, and they cannot move beyond the realm of speculation and guesswork.
With the bottom of the food chain destroyed, dinosaurs could not survive.
Callisto has not fully differentiated, meaning separated into layers of different density materials.
In thinking of ice so far from the Sun, it is important not to judge its behavior from that of the much warmer ice we know on Earth; at the temperatures of the outer solar system, ice on the surface is nearly as hard as rock, and behaves similarly.
Ice on Callisto does not deform or flow like ice in glaciers on Earth.
Ganymede is not a dead world, but rather a place of continuing geological activity powered by an internal heat source.
Towns and cities were established not only as garrisons (military posts) but as centers for the diffusion of Greek language, literature, and thought, particularly through libraries, as at Antioch (in modern Turkey) and the most famous of all, at Alexandria in Egypt, which would be the finest in the world for the next thousand years.
In decision making, the whole body of citizens together would have the necessary knowledge in order generally to reach the right decision, even though the individual might not be particularly qualified to decide.
), who lived at a time when the city-state system was declining, believed that a political entity of 100,000 simply would not be able to govern itself.
This implied that the city-state was based on the idea that citizens were not specialists but had multiple interests and talents    each a so-called jack-of-all-trades who could engage in many areas of life and politics.
was the first person in Greece to propose a morality based on individual conscience rather than the demands of the state, and for this he was accused of not believing in the city  s gods and so corrupting the youth, and he was condemned to death.
Hence, because oil and water do not mix, water remains fastened to the quartz or carbonate grains, while oil occupies the central parts of the larger openings in the porous sandstone or limestone.
Most of the petroleum that forms in sediments does not find a suitable trap and eventually makes its way, along with groundwater, to the surface of the sea.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the highest ratio of oil and gas pools to volume of sediment is found in rock no older than 2.5 million years  young enough so that little of the petroleum has leaked away  and that nearly 60 percent of all oil and gas discovered so far has been found in strata that formed in the last 65 million years This does not mean that older rocks produced less petroleum; it simply means that oil in older rocks has had a longer time in which to leak away.
In these situations, water temperatures are raised not just along the coast, but for thousands of kilometers offshore.
Over the last few decades, the term El  Nifio has come to be used to describe these exceptionally strong episodes and not the annual event.
The processes that interact to produce an El  Nifio involve conditions all across the Pacific, not just in the waters off South America.
Evidence from teeth suggests that these earliest tetrapods did not utilize land plants as food; they were presumably carnivorous and had not developed the ability to feed on plants.
However, many problems that faced early land plants were not applicable to the first tetrapods The ancestors of these animals already had a circulation system, and they were mobile, so that they could move to water to drink.
When one of Vermeer  s paintings was X-rayed, it did not have any preliminary sketches on the canvas beneath the paint, but rather the complete image drawn in black and white without any trial sketches.
Vermeer did not have any students, did not keep any records, and did not encourage anyone to visit his studio, facts that can be interpreted as protecting his secret use of a camera obscura.
Hockney argues that the camera obscura does not replace artistic skill in drawing and painting.
However, this is not universal and depends on the currents under which the bed exists.
Further, nearly all of the ice-age fauna had teeth that indicate an adaptation to grasses and sedges; they could not have been supported by a modern flora of mosses and lichens.
He makes this argument based on the anatomy of horse and bison, which do not have the ability to search for food through deep snow cover.
Even tall trees in the tropics are usually not wind pollinated despite being in windy conditions.
Evergreen conifers, which do not shed their leaves, have less to gain from spring flowering, and, indeed, some flower in the autumn or winter.
Once the pollen has been snatched by the wind, the fate of the pollen is obviously up to the vagaries of the wind, but not everything is left to chance.
In such creatures, not only are the teeth hugely enlarged and/or the jaws elongated but the size of the mouth opening may be greatly increased by making the jaw articulations so flexible that they can be effectively dislocated.
The Egyptians were not far behind in developing writing, but we cannot follow the history of their writing in detail because they used a perishable writing material.
Clay, moreover, is cheap, and forming it into tablets is easy, factors that helped the clay tablet become the preferred writing material not only throughout Mesopotamia but far outside it as well, in Syria, Asia Minor, Persia, and even for a while in Crete and Greece.
Now and then these files include pieces of writing that are of a distinctly different order, writings that do not merely record some matter of fact but involve creative intellectual activity.
The existence of wealth did not escape the attention of kings and other rulers.
Even so, merchants and business people did not run medieval communities, except in central and northern Italy and in the county of Flanders.
The Minnesota grassland research has been widely accepted as strong evidence for the diversity- stability theory; however, its findings have been questioned, and similar studies on other ecosystems have not always found a positive relationship between diversity and stability.
Many objects were not art in even the broadest sense and comprised utilitarian items of clothing, utensils, and equipment.
We should not underestimate the social status associated with such mundane possessions which had not previously been available.
The flooding of Britain with red-gloss pottery form Gaul (modern-day France), decorated with scenes from Classical mythology, probably brought many into contact with the styles and artistic concepts of the Greco-Roman world for the first time, whether or not the symbolism was understood.
A visitor from Rome would have recognized its owner as a participant in the contemporary culture of the empire, not at all provincial in taste.
One result was an influx of craft worker, particularly those skilled in artistic media like stone-carving which had not existed before the conquest.
As many of the officials in Britain had strong links with Gaul, it is not surprising that early Roman Britain owes much to craft workers from that area.
But they are certainly not ants.
Coral reefs are found where the ocean water temperature is not less than 21   C, where there is a firm substratum, and where the seawater is not rendered too dark by excessive amounts of river-borne sediment.
They will not grow in very deep water, so a platform within 30 to 40 meters of the surface is a necessary prerequisite for their development.
To explain this sudden increase we cannot point to factors constant in Chinese society but must find conditions or a combination of factors that were newly effective in this period.
If we extend such observations to extinct dinosaurs, we can infer dietary preferences (such as carnivory and herbivory), even though we cannot determine the exact diet.
Fossilized stomach contents are not restricted to carnivorous dinosaurs.
The release of heat energy is retarded by the tall vertical city walls that do not allow infrared radiation to escape as readily as does the relatively level surface of the surrounding countryside.
Falls in sea level often exposed a number of important land bridges, such as those linking Alaska to northeast Asia and Britain to northwest Europe, a phenomenon with far reaching effects not only on human colonization of the globe but also on the environment as a whole-the flora and fauna of isolated or insular areas were radically and often irreversibly affected.
When the ice sheets were at their greatest extent some 18,000 years ago (the glacier maximum), it is thought that the fall was about 120 meters, which therefore created not merely a bridge but a vast plain, 1,000 kilometers from the north to the south, which has been called Beringia.
Raised beaches are remnants of former coastlines at higher levels relative to the present shoreline and visible, for instance, along the Californian coast north of San Francisco, the height of a raised beach above the present shoreline, however, does not generally give a straightforward indication of the height of a former sea level.
As Gutenberg, apart from getting the key idea, had to solve a lot of practical problems, including imposing paper and ink into the process and the actual printing itself, for which he adapted the screw press used by winemakers, it is amazing that his first product does not look at all rudimentary.
The old monastic scriptoria-monastery workshops where monks copied texts by hand-worked closely alongside the new presses, continuing to produce the luxury goods that movable-type printing could not yet supply.
As a result, many small, independent farmers were forced to sell out simply because they could not compete.
