Ordinary meteoric water is water that has soaked into the ground from the surface, from precipitation (rain and snow) and from lakes and streams.
The water was always laden with pebbles, gravel, and sand, known as glacial outwash, that was deposited as the flow slowed down. 
In lowland country almost any spot on the ground may overlie what was once the bed of a river that has since become buried by soil; if they are now below the water  s upper surface (the water table), the gravels and sands of the former riverbed, and its sandbars, will be saturated with groundwater. 
The proportion of empty space in a rock is known as its porosity.
The upper timberline, like the snow line, is highest in the tropics and lowest in the Polar Regions.
This is because middle- and upper- latitude timberlines are strongly influenced by the duration and depth of the snow cover.
As the snow is deeper and lasts longer in the valleys, trees tend to attain greater heights on the ridges, even though they are more exposed to high-velocity winds and poor, thin soils there.
Too much snow, for example, can smother trees, and avalanches and snow creep can damage or destroy them.
Late-lying snow reduces the effective growing season to the point where seedlings cannot establish themselves.
Some plants can even survive in favorable microhabitats above the snow line.
At this great height, rocks, warmed by the sun, melt small snowdrifts.
The low growth form can also permit the plants to take advantage of the insulation provided by a winter snow cover.
Extinct but already fully marine cetaceans are known from the fossil record.
The river that formed these deposits was actually not far from an ancient ocean known as the Tethys Sea.
Several skeletons of another early whale, Basilosaurus, were found in sediments left by the Tethys Sea and now exposed in the Sahara desert.
The now extinct whale Ambulocetus natans ("the walking whale that swam") lived in the Tethys Sea 49 million years ago.
Progress in this area can be measured by the difference in weight between buildings built now and those of comparable size built one hundred years ago.
Water from rains and melting snows has been accumulating in the Ogallala for the past 30,000 years.
More than 100,000 wells now tap the Ogallala.
The incentive of the farmers who wish to conserve water is reduced by their knowledge that many of their neighbors are profiting by using great amounts of water, and in the process are drawing down the entire region  s water supplies.
Ecologists are especially interested to know what factors contribute to the resilience of communities because climax communities all over the world are being severely damaged or destroyed by human activities.
We need to know what aspects of a community are most important to the community  s resistance to destruction, as well as its recovery.
Many ecologists now think that the relative long-term stability of climax communities comes not from diversity but from the   patchiness   of the environment, an environment that varies from place to place supports more kinds of organisms than an environment that is uniform.
The black-tailed deer, a lowland, west-side cousin of the mule deer of eastern Washington, is now the most common.
The other species, the Columbian white-tailed deer, in earlier times was common in the open prairie country; it is now restricted to the low, marshy islands and flood plains along the lower Columbia River. 
Even with snow on the ground, the high bushy understory is exposed; also snow and wind bring down leafy branches of cedar, hemlock, red alder, and other arboreal fodder. 
Recall the fate of the Columbian white-tailed deer, now in a protected status.
Scientists have known for some time that certain plants, called hyperaccumulators, can concentrate minerals at levels a hundredfold or greater than normal.
A survey of known hyperaccumulators identified that 75 percent of them amassed nickel, cobalt, copper, zinc, manganese, lead, and cadmium are other minerals of choice.
Only recently have investigators considered using these plants to clean up soil and waste sites that have been contaminated by toxic levels of heavy metals Can environmentally friendly approach known as phytoremediation.
It is now generally believed that these prerequisites originated with peoples speaking Austronesian languages (a group of several hundred related languages) and began to emerge in Southeast Asia by about 5000 B.C.E.
These expeditions were likely driven by population growth and political dynamics on the home islands, as well as the challenge and excitement of exploring unknown waters.  
During a geologically brief 100-million-year period, all modern animal groups (along with other animals that are now extinct) evolved.
In fact, fossil beds containing soft-bodied animals have been known for many years. 
The Ediacara fossil formation, which contains the oldest known animal fossils, consists exclusively of soft-bodied forms.
At one time, the animals present in these fossil beds were assigned to various modern animal groups, but most paleontologists now agree that all Tommotian fossils represent unique body forms that arose in the early Cambrian period and disappeared before the end of the period, leaving no descendants in modern animal groups.
For example, a well-known Burgess Shale animal called Sidneyia is a representative of a previously unknown group of arthropods (a category of animals that includes insects, spiders, mites, and crabs).
No one really knows.
Will zoologists ever know the evolutionary sequences in the Cambrian explosion?
The source had long been known but not exploited.
General knowledge of categories of events such as a birthday party or a visit to the doctor's office helps older individuals encode their experiences, but again, infants and toddlers are unlikely to encode many experiences within such knowledge structures.
As a result of crustal adjustments and faulting, the Strait of Gibraltar, where the Mediterranean now connects to the Atlantic, opened, and water cascaded spectacularly back into the Mediterranean.
Had the Greeks held novelty in such disdain as we,   asked Horace in his epistle,   what work of ancient date would now exist?  
The drying up of what is now the Sahara desert had pushed many peoples to the south into sub-Sahara Africa.
Knowledge of iron making penetrated into the forest and savannahs of West Africa at roughly the same time that iron making was reaching Europe.
No one knows why.
The answer may be that virtually all the water on Mars is now locked in the permafrost layer under the surface, with more contained in the planet  s polar caps.
It has long been accepted that the Americas were colonized by a migration of peoples from Asia, slowly traveling across a land bridge called Beringia (now the Bering Strait between northeastern Asia and Alaska) during the last Ice Age.
Research now indicates that sizable areas of southeastern Alaska along the inner continental shelf were not covered by ice toward the end of the last Ice Age.
This was justified by the view that reflective practice could help teachers to feel more intellectually involved in their role and work in teaching and enable them to cope with the paucity of scientific fact and the uncertainty of knowledge in the discipline of teaching. 
Some species developed great size, becoming tree ferns that even now grow in the Hawaiian forests. 
We know that over the past millennia the climate has undergone major changes without any significant human intervention.
We also know that the global climate system is immensely complicated and that everything is in some way connected, and so the system is capable of fluctuating in unexpected ways.
We need therefore to know how much the climate can vary of its own accord in order to interpret with confidence the extent to which recent changes are natural as opposed to being the result of human activities.
What we do know is that as we include longer time intervals, the record shows increasing evidence of slow swings in climate between different regimes.
These include the chaotic fluctuations of the atmosphere, the slower but equally erratic behavior of the oceans, changes in the land surfaces, and the extent of ice and snow.
In order to understand ancient Egyptian art, it is vital to know as much as possible of the elite Egyptians' view of the world and the functions and contexts of the art produced for them.
Without this knowledge we can appreciate only the formal content of Egyptian art, and we will fail to understand why it was produced or the concepts that shaped it and caused it to adopt its distinctive forms.
When such statues are viewed in isolation, out of their original context and without knowledge of their function, it is easy to criticize them for their rigid attitudes that remained unchanged for three thousand years.
Other statues were designed to be placed within an architectural setting, for instance, in front of the monumental entrance gateways to temples known as pylons, or in pillared courts, where they would be placed against or between pillars: their frontality worked perfectly within the architectural context.
We all know that many more people today are right-handed than left-handed.
These rivers and river systems are known as "exogenous" because their sources lie outside the arid zone.
Regularly flowing rivers and streams that originate within arid lands are known as "endogenous."
It is known, however, that the distribution of groundwater is uneven, and that much of it lies at great depths.
The water-saturated rock or sediment is known as an "aquifer".
Some deep aquifers are known as "fossil waters.
We find it difficult to get to know people personally when they are milling about and dispersed in large groups.
With these sophisticated observational assessment and electro-physiological measures, we know that the neonate of only a few days is far more perceptive than previously suspected.
Researcher Charles Atkin found that children believe that the characters used to advertise breakfast cereals are knowledgeable about cereals, and children accept such characters as credible sources of nutritional information.
We do not know how old, or how large, a leatherback has to be before it can switch from a cold-blooded to a warm-blooded mode of life.
Glaciers are slowly moving masses of ice that have accumulated on land in areas where more snowfalls during a year than melts.
Snow falls as hexagonal crystals, but once on the ground, snow is soon transformed into a compacted mass of smaller, rounded grains.
With further melting, refreezing, and increased weight from newer snowfall above, the snow reaches a granular recrystallized stage intermediate between flakes and ice known as firn.
When the ice is thick enough, usually over 30 meters, the weight of the snow and firn will cause the ice crystals toward the bottom to become plastic and to flow outward or downward from the area of snow accumulation.
Glaciers are open systems, with snow as the system  s input and meltwater as the system's main output.
For a glacier to grow or maintain its mass, there must be sufficient snowfall to match or exceed the annual loss through melting, evaporation, and calving, which occurs when the glacier loses solid chunks as icebergs to the sea or to large lakes.
If summer temperatures are high for too long, then all the snowfall from the previous winter will melt.
Surplus snowfall is essential for a glacier to develop.
A surplus allows snow to accumulate and for the pressure of snow accumulated over the years to transform buried snow into glacial ice with a depth great enough for the ice to flow.
When snowfalls on high mountains or in polar regions, it may become part of the glacial system.
Unlike rain, which returns rapidly to the sea or atmosphere, the snow that becomes part of a glacier is involved in a much more slowly cycling system.
One can trace such expeditions back to ancient Sumeria, the earliest known Middle Eastern civilization.
By the late 1860's more than 60 chemical elements had been identified, and much was known about their descriptive chemistry.
When the elements known at the time were ordered by increasing atomic mass, it was found that successive elements belonged to different chemical groups and that the order of the groups in this sequence was fixed and repeated itself at regular intervals.
We now know that atomic number (the number of protons in the nucleus), not atomic mass number (the number of protons and neutrons), determines chemical behavior.
Ramsay then studied a gas that was present in natural gas deposits and discovered that it was helium, an element whose presence in the Sun had been noted earlier in the spectrum of sunlight but that had not previously been known on Earth.
Also, because of their relative locations, the four Jovian planets are known as the outer planets, while the terrestrial planets are known as the inner planets.
Simply stated, a gas molecule can "evaporate" from a planet if it reaches a speed known as the escape velocity.
A maritime code known as the Consulate of the Sea, which originated in the western Mediterranean region in the fourteenth century, won acceptance by a majority of sea goers as the normative code for maritime conduct; it defined such matters as the authority of a ship's officers, protocols of command, pay structures, the rights of sailors, and the rules of engagement when ships met one another on the sea-lanes.
Eventually, Agassiz and others convinced geologists and the general public that a great continental glaciation had extended the polar ice caps far into regions that now enjoy temperate climates.
We now know the age of the glaciation accurately from radiometric dating of the carbon-14 in logs buried in the drift.
The oxygen isotope ratio of the ocean changes as a great deal of water is withdrawn from it by evaporation and is precipitated as snow to form glacial ice.
The climatic changes in southwestern Asia were more subtle, in that they involved shifts in mountain snow lines, rainfall patterns, and vegetation cover.
Thanks to new environmental and archaeological discoveries, we now know something about this remarkable change in local life.
Many areas were richer in animal and plant species than they are now, making them highly favorable for human occupation.
Thanks to extremely fine-grained excavation and extensive use of flotation methods (through which seeds are recovered from soil samples), we know a great deal about the foraging practices of the inhabitants of Abu Hureyra in Syria's Euphrates valley.
Indeed, unaltered shells of marine invertebrates are known from deposits over 100 million years old.
Although aragonite has the same composition as the more familiar mineral known as calcite, it has a different crystal form, is relatively unstable, and in time changes to the more stable calcite.
Another type of fossilization, known as carbonization, occurs when soft tissues are preserved as thin films of carbon.
More than 20,000 apartments in France are now heated by warm underground water drawn from a heat reservoir in a geologic structure near Paris called the Paris Basin.
Iceland sits on a volcanic structure known as the Mid-Atlantic Ridge.
Eighteen countries now generate electricity using geothermal heat.
Agriculture developed slowly among populations that had an extensive knowledge of plants and animals.
We know, however, that contemporary hunter-gatherer societies control their population in a variety of ways.
Knowledge about narratives arises from social interactions, particularly the storytelling that children experience from parents and the attempts parents make to talk with children about past events in their lives.
and "What does it mean to know something?"
Spartina alterniflora, known as cordgrass, is a deciduous, perennial flowering plant native to the Atlantic coast and the Gulf Coast of the United States.
Nature now seemed able to speak for itself, with a minimum of interference.
Cities, then, are warmer than the surrounding rural areas, and together they produce a phenomenon known as the urban heat island.
Over the past four decades new discoveries have steadily added to the body of knowledge.
Third, is it possible to interpret accurately the subject matter of ancient rock art, bring to bear all available archaeological techniques and the knowledge of present-day Aboriginal informants?
Although the remarkable antiquity of Australia  s rock art is now established, the sequences and meanings of its images have been widely debated.
Certain features of these engravings lead to the conclusion that they are of great age  geological changes had clearly happened after the designs had been made and local Aboriginal informants, when first questioned about them, seemed to know nothing of their origins.
The surface of Mars shows a wide range of geologic features, including huge volcanoes-the largest known in the solar system-and extensive impact cratering.
The terrestrial world is green now, but it did not start out that way.
The resulting adaptations to dry land include some structural features that arose early in plant evolution; now these features are common to virtually all land plant.
Other adaptations occurred later in the transition to terrestrial life and now wide spread but not universal among plants.
For years historians have sought to identify crucial elements in the eighteenth-century rise in industry, technology, and economic power Known as the Industrial Revolution, and many give prominence to the problem of energy.
The earliest of the city states of the ancient Near East appeared at the southern end of the Mesopotamian plain, the area between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers in what is now Iraq.
It was here that the civilization known as Sumer emerged in its earliest form in the fifth millennium.
Rainfall was limited, and what water there was rushed across the plain in the annual flood of melted snow.
the political and economic life of the cities was centered on their temples, but it now seems probable that the cities had secular rulers from earliest times.
provides the earliest known example from Sumer, a roofed boxlike sledge mounted on four solid wheels.
A major development was the discovery, again about 3000 B.C.E., that if copper, which had been known in Mesopotamia since about 3500 B.C.E., was mixed with tin, a much harder metal, bronze, would result.
Some of the earliest human civilizations arose in southern Mesopotamis, in what is now southern Iraq, in the fourth millennium B.C.E.
For some unknown reason, many were discarded, often still intact, and thousands have been found all over the Near East.
Certain images depict groups of people, most likely women, involved in weaving textiles, an activity we know from later third-millennium texts to have been vital in the economy and to have been centrally administered.
The technological knowledge needed to carve it was far superior to that for stamp seals, which had happened in the early Neolithic period (approximately 10,000-5000 B.C.E.).
The most recent island, Hawaii, would be at the end of the chain and is now over the volcanic source.
Wilson  s analysis of these data is now a central part of plate tectonics.
Ecologists studying hare populations have found that the North American snow shoe hare follows a roughly ten-year cycle.
The preferred foods of snowshoe hares are willow and birch twigs.
A key predator of the snowshoe hare is the Canada lynx.
This phenomenon is known as   competitor exclusion.
This pore space is known as porosity and is expressed as a percentage of the total rock volume.
As recently as 6000 B.C., the southern frontier of the desert was far to the north of where it is now, while semiarid grassland and shallow freshwater lakes covered much of what are now arid plains.
The areas that are now desert were, like all arid regions, very susceptible to cycles of higher and lower levels of rainfall, resulting in major, sudden changes in distributions of plants and animals.
We know from rock paintings deep in the Sahara that the herders were soon selecting breeding animals to produce offspring with different horn shapes and hide colors.
It is still unclear whether domesticated cattle were tamed independently in northern Africa or introduced to the continent from Southwest Asia.Whatever the source of the original tamed herds might have been, it seems entirely likely that much the same process of juxtaposition (living side by side) and control occurred in both Southwest Asia and northern Africa, and even in Europe, among peoples who had an intimate knowledge of the behavior of wild cattle.
For instance, as we all know, dogs recognize each other via smell.
The existence of competition has been long known to naturalists; its effects were described by Darwin in considerable detail.
North and South American species migrating across the Isthmus now came into competition with each other.
No one knows exactly when the waterwheel was invented, but irrigation systems existed at least 5,000 years ago, and it seems probable that the earliest waterpower device was the noria, a waterwheel that raised water for irrigation in attached jars.
The earliest waterpower mills were probably vertical-axis mills for grinding corn, known as Norse or Greek mills, which seem to have appeared during the first or second century B.C.
The growth of the electric-power industry was the result of a remarkable series of scientific discoveries and developments in electrotechnology during the nineteenth century, but significant changes in what we might now call hydro (water) technology also played their part.
The evolution of North American horses, which was once presented as a classic textbook example of gradual evolution, is now providing equally compelling evidence for punctuated equilibrium.
But close examination of those fossil deposits now reveals a somewhat different story.
The question about the rate of evolution must now be turned around: does evolution ever proceed gradually, or does it always occur in short bursts?
For example, Peter Sheldon  s studies of trilobites, a now extinct marine animal with a segmented body, offer a detailed glimpse into three million years of evolution in one marine environment.
And then the new cities and towns, squeezed by their walls, had to know and order time in order to organize collective activity and ration space.
We do not know who invented this machine, or where.
Once known, it spread rapidly, driving out water clocks but not solar dials, which were needed to check the new machines against the timekeeper of last resort.
Its public display and private possession laid the basis for temporal autonomy: people could now coordinate comings and goings without dictation from above.
This route to speciation is known as allopatry (  allo-   means   different  , and   patria   means   homeland  ).
The change separated populations of insects now living along opposite shore, completely cutting off gene flow between them.
While previously the gap between the continents had allowed a free flow of water, now the isthmus presented a barrier that divided the Atlantic Ocean from the Pacific Ocean.
In the United States, the best-known program designed to promote future academic success is Head Start.
In the late nineteenth century, political and social changes were occurring rapidly in Siam (now Thailand).
It is difficult to imagine it now, but Siam  s Central Plain in the late 1800s was nowhere near as densely settled as it is today.
Peasants now paid a tax on individuals instead of being required to render labor service to the government.
The villages became more vulnerable to arbitrary treatment by government bureaucrats as local elites now hand less control over them.
The best known of the five major extinction events, the one that saw the demise of the dinosaurs, is the Cretaceous-Tertiary extinction.
However, no group or species can maintain its dominance indefinitely, and when, after over 200 million years, the age of dinosaurs came to a dramatic end about 65 million years ago, mammals began to flourish, evolving from relatively few types of small terrestrial animals into the myriad of diverse species, including bats and whales, that we know today.
It is now widely believed that at least some species of dinosaurs had a metabolic rate high enough for them to be endotherms (animals that maintain a relatively consistent body temperature by generating heat internally).
The mosque of Marrakech in Morocco is known as the Kutubiyya, or Booksellers   Mosque, after the adjacent market.
Eventually, six round forms of handwriting, composed of three pairs of big and little scripts known collectively as the Six Pens, became the standard repertory of every calligrapher. 
The extrafloral nectaries of some plants are known to attract ants and other insects, but the evolutionary history of most plants with these nectaries is unknown.
That we now have an abundance of the proof that was called for was established when Barbara Bentley reviewed the relevant evidence in 1977, and since then many more observations and experiments have provided still further proof that ants benefit plants.
However, James Hutton (1726-1797), known as the founder of modern geology, was the first to have the important insight that geologic processes are cyclic in nature.
It is now known that certain phytoplankton species have requirements for certain vitamins, and that there are considerable differences among species as to requirements.
A growing body of evidence now suggests that all of the factors considered here are operating simultaneously to produce species succession.
For this reason, a soil scientist can tell a great deal about the attributes of the soil in any given area simply form knowing what kind of flora the soil supports.
The bacteria that legumes host within their root nodules (small swellings on the root) change nitrogen gas from the atmosphere into nitrogen compounds that plants are able to metabolize, a process, known as nitrogen fixation, that makes the soil more fertile.
Although the Aegean had been the birthplace of marine biology, its depths are now known to be exceptionally lacking in animal diversity.
This phenomenon, an increase in the frequency of dark-colored mutants in polluted areas, is known as industrial melanism.
), the best known of the earliest Greek philosophers, made the first steps toward a new, more objective approach to finding out about the world.
His two best-known followers, though there were undoubtedly others who attained less renown, were Anaximander and Anaximenes.
Much more is known about Anaximander than about Anaximenes, probably because Anaximander, who was born sometime around 610 BCE, ambitiously attempted to write a comprehensive history of the universe.
Little is known about his other ideas.
For example, glass could be used to open up walls and eliminate their stone and brick masonry because large spaces could now be spanned with steel beams.
Our knowledge of cell structure took a giant leap forward as biologists began using the electron microscope in the 1950s.
By now, their numbers have undoubtedly grown even more, as they have continued to expand into new habitats where they were once either rare or absent, such as sandy prairies, deserts, coastal marshes, and mountains.
Genes from virtually any organism, from viruses to humans, can now be inserted into plants, creating what are known as transgenic plants.
We know that evolution will occur when transgenic plants grown on a large scale over a period of time.
Knowledge conferred power.
What is clear from the vast body of texts (some 20,000 tablets were found in King Ashurbanipal  s library at Nineveh) is that scribes took pride in their writing and knowledge. 
Between 80 and 85 million years ago, Gondwanaland, a giant continent made up of what today is Africa, Antarctica, Australia, and South America, broke up, thus causing what is now New Zealand to become separated from the larger landmass.
They are known from a diverse array of remains including eggshells, eggs, a few mummified carcasses, vast numbers of bones, and some older fossilized bone.
Foresters now identify the biggest problem in managing Western forests as what to do with those increased fuel loads that built up during the previous half century of effective fire suppression.
The strength of the Athenian aristocracy was further weakened during the rest of the century by the rise of a type of government known as a tyranny, which is a form of interim rule by a popular strongman (not rule by a ruthless dictator as the modem use of the term suggests to us).
The twenty-four known Navajo chants can be represented by up to 500 sand paintings.
Studies of how stars evolve suggest that the early Sun was only about 70 percent as luminous as it is now, so the temperature in Venus   early atmosphere must have been quite a bit lower.
The answer to the first question is that carbon dioxide is still found in abundance on Earth, but now, instead of being in the form of atmospheric carbon dioxide, it is either dissolved in the oceans or chemically bound into carbonate rocks, such as the limestone and marble that formed in the oceans.
Renfrew  s model made some assumptions that are now discounted.
Many archaeologists and paleobotanists now question this view, pointing out that the available evidence for cultivated vines and olives suggests that they were present only in the later Bronze Age.
In time, this organization became a state, and knowledge of its functioning was exportable, as were pottery, tropical bird feathers, specialized stone materials, and other local commodities.
Now that we know much more about ancient exchange and commerce, we know that, because no one aspect of trade was an overriding cause of cultural change or evolution in commercial practices, trade can never be looked on as a unifying factor or as a primary agent of ancient civilization.
For example, in less than two million years, small populations of stray animals and plants from the South American mainland that managed to colonize the Galapagos Islands gave rise to all the species that now inhabit the islands.
The species on the Galapagos Islands today, most of which occur nowhere else, descended from organisms that floated, flew, or were blown over the sea from the South American mainland.
Dinosaurs rapidly became extinct about 65 million years ago as part of a mass extinction known as the K-T event, because it is associated with a geological signature known as the K-T boundary, usually a thin band of sedimentation found in various parts of the world (K is the traditional abbreviation for the Cretaceous, derived from the German name Kreideieit).
The bolide struck an area of the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico known as Chicxulub, excavating a crater 15-20 kilometers deep and at least 170 kilometers in diameter.
In thinking of ice so far from the Sun, it is important not to judge its behavior from that of the much warmer ice we know on Earth; at the temperatures of the outer solar system, ice on the surface is nearly as hard as rock, and behaves similarly.
felt that the ideal city-state should have about 5,000 citizens, because to the Greeks it was important that everyone in the community should know each other.
In decision making, the whole body of citizens together would have the necessary knowledge in order generally to reach the right decision, even though the individual might not be particularly qualified to decide.
One now had to specialize, and with specialization came professionalism.
There were getting to be too many persons to know, an easily observable community of interests was being replaced by a multiplicity of interests.
In the ocean, microscopic phytoplankton (tiny floating plants) and bacteria (simple, single-celled organisms) are the principal sources of organic matter that is trapped and buried in sediment Most of the organic matter is buried in clay that is slowly converted to a fine-grained sedimentary rock known as shale.
Two additional kinds of evidence support the hypothesis that petroleum is a product of the decomposition of organic matter: oil possesses optical properties known only in hydrocarbons derived from organic matter, and oil contains nitrogen and certain compounds believed to originate only in living matter.
It is now well established that petroleum migrates through aquifers and can become trapped in reservoirs.
Knowing how much oil has been found in an intensively drilled area, such as eastern Texas, experts make estimates of probable volumes in other regions where rock types and structures are similar to those in eastern Texas.
Fishers in this region have known the phenomenon for hundreds of years.
However, in other years the Southern Oscillation, for unknown reasons, swings in the opposite direction, dramatically changing the usual conditions described above, with pressure increasing in the western.
From such historical evidence we know that El Nirtos have occurred as far back as records go.
Evidence gathered over the past few decades indicates that El Ninos are now occurring on average a little over every two years.
Snowstorms in the northeast portion of the United States were more frequent and intense than in most years.
It is known that they had lungs as well as gills for breathing.
The bones of the fins of a Devonian rhipidistian exactly match in number and position the limb bones of the earliest known tetrapods, the amphibians.
This technique was known as long ago as the fifth century B.C.
Some ait historians are now looking for clues of artists' use of such devices.
Vermeer produced only about 30 known paintings, including his famous The Art of Painting.
This land mass supported herds of now-extinct species of mammoth, bison, and horse and somewhat modern versions of caribou, musk ox, elk, and saiga antelope.
He makes this argument based on the anatomy of horse and bison, which do not have the ability to search for food through deep snow cover.
They need landscapes with strong winds that remove the winter snows, exposing the dry grasses beneath.
For the scribes of these non-Sumerian languages, training was doubly demanding since they had to know the values of the various cuneiform signs for Sumerian as well as for their own language.
Renowned Swiss entomologist Martin Luscher described the mounds of this fungus-growing species as being as much as 16 feet tall, 16 feet in diameter at their base, and with a cement-like wall of soil mixed with termite saliva that is from 16 to 23 inches thick.
The 2,000 kilometer complex of reefs known as the Great Barrier Reef, which forms a gigantic natural breakwater off the northeast coast of Australia, is by far the greatest coral structure on Earth.
The duck-billed dinosaurs known as hadrosaurs are a good example of a group whose jaw joint is below the level of the tooth row, which probably helped them grind up tough, fibrous vegetation. 
The best known of these cases is the second Edmontosaurus mummy collected by the Sternbergs.
For more than a hundred years, it has been known that cities are generally warmer than surrounding rural areas.
This region of city warmth, known as the urban heat island, can influence the concentration of air pollution.
These have changed constantly through time, even in relatively recent periods, as can be seen from the Neolithic stone circle of Er Lannic, in Brittany, France (once inland but now half submerged on an island) or medieval villages in east Yorkshire, England, that have tumbled into the sea in the last few centuries as the North Sea gnaws its way westward and erodes the cliffs.
This was known as cloth parchment.
In 1450, Gutenberg began work on his Bible, the first printed book, known as the Gutenberg.
German printers had the disadvantage of working with the complex typeface that the Italians sneeringly referred to as "Gothic" and that later became known as black letter.
The Italians, on the other hand, had a clear typeface known as roman that became the type of the future.
Dutch peasant farmers were known throughout Europe for their agricultural innovations, but as British markets and opportunities grew, the English quickly learned from them.
