Immediately adjacent to the timberline, the tundra consists of a fairly complete cover of low-lying shrubs, herbs, and grasses, while higher up the number and diversity of species decrease until there is much bare ground with occasional mosses and lichens and some prostrate cushion plants.
The consequences of an excessive number of livestock grazing in an area are the reduction of the vegetation cover and the trampling and pulverization of the soil.
The extreme seriousness of desertification results from the vast areas of land and the tremendous numbers of people affected, as well as from the great difficulty of reversing or even slowing the process.
In the face of the upcoming water supply crisis, a number of grandiose schemes have been developed to transport vast quantities of water by canal or pipeline from the Mississippi, the Missouri, or the Arkansas rivers. 
These changes  in plant numbers and the mix of species  are cumulative.
Individual fish may be replaced, but the number of fish will tend to be the same from one year to the next.
Once a redwood forest matures, for example, the kinds of species and the number of individuals growing on the forest floor are reduced.
The numbers of deer have fluctuated markedly since the entry of Europeans into Puget Sound country.
Reduction in numbers of game should have boded ill for their survival in later times.
No doubt the numbers of deer declined still further.
First, the major predators of deer  wolves, cougar, and lynx  have been greatly reduced in numbers.
But the most profound reason for the restoration of high population numbers has been the fate of the forests.
Iron hoes, which made the land more productive, and iron weapons, which made the warrior more powerful, had symbolic meaning in a number of West Africa societies.
They spoke a language, proto-Bantu (  Bantu   means   the people  ), which is the parent tongue of a language of a large number of Bantu languages still spoken throughout sub-Sahara Africa.
It had over 2,000 apartment complexes, a great market, a large number of industrial workshops, an administrative center, a number of massive religious edifices, and a regular grid pattern of streets and buildings.
Prior to 200 B.C., a number of relatively small centers coexisted in and near the Valley of Mexico.
With Cuicuilco eliminated as a potential rival, any one of a number of relatively modest towns might have emerged as a leading economic and political power in Central Mexico.
Finally, the growing population was probably fed by increasing the number and size of irrigated fields.
The researchers estimate that the initial training of the teachers to view events objectively took between 20 and 30 hours, with the same number of hours again being required to practice the skills of reflection. 
Vast numbers of them fall on the ground beneath the mother plants.
By force of sheer numbers, however, the mosses and ferns reached Hawaii, survived, and multiplied.
Toth has applied these criteria to the similarly made pebble tools from a number of early sites (before 1.5 million years) at Koobi Fora, Kenya, probably made by Homo habilis.
In 1929 the United States motion picture industry released more than 300 sound films  a rough figure, since a number were silent films with music tracks, or films prepared in dual versions, to take account of the many cinemas not yet wired for sound.
A number of conditions enhance the likelihood that primary groups will arise.
In the study of perceptual abilities of infants, a number of techniques are used to determine infants' responses to various stimuli.
Often the rapid and diffuse movements of the infant make it difficult to get an accurate record of the number of responses.
Heart and respiration monitors provide the investigator with the number of heartbeats or breaths taken when a new stimulus is presented.
Increases in the number of sucks were used as an indicator of the infant's attention to or preference for a given visual display.
American paleontologists David Raup and John Sepkoski, who have studied extinction rates in a number of fossil groups, suggest that episodes of increased extinction have recurred periodically, approximately every 26 million years since the mid-Cretaceous period.
The periodic table is a chart that reflects the periodic recurrence of chemical and physical properties of the elements when the elements are arranged in order of increasing atomic number (the number of protons in the nucleus).
All the isotopes of a given element have the same number of protons, but differ in their number of neutrons, and hence in their atomic mass.
We now know that atomic number (the number of protons in the nucleus), not atomic mass number (the number of protons and neutrons), determines chemical behavior.
The structure of the periodic table appeared to limit the number of possible elements.
In the fourteenth century, a number of political developments cut Europe's overland trade routes to southern and eastern Asia, with which Europe had had important and highly profitable commercial ties since the twelfth century.
In the wake of the Roman Empire's conquest of Britain in the first century A.D., a large number of troops stayed in the new province, and these troops had a considerable impact on Britain with their camps, fortifications, and participation in the local economy.
The total numbers were at least 12,500 men up to the reign of the emperor Hadrian (A.D. 117-138), with a peak around A.D. 80.
Furthermore, the number of interactions is so great that they are difficult to analyze, even with the help of large computers.
Within 2,000 years, the human population of the region numbered in the tens of thousands, all as a result of village life and farming.
How did it come about that farming developed independently in a number of world centers (the Southeast Asian mainland, Southwest Asia, Central America, lowland and highland South America, and equatorial Africa) at more or less the same time?
In New Zealand the plant has spread rapidly, changing mudflats with marshy fringes to extensive salt meadows and reducing the number and kinds of birds and animals that use the marsh.
The surface-atmosphere relationships inside metropolitan areas produce a number of climatic peculiarities.
While accepting that this sequence fits the archaeological profile of those sites, which were occupied continuously over many thousands of years a number of writers have warned that the underlying assumption of such a sequence  a development from the simple and the geometric to the complex and naturalistic  obscures the cultural continuities in Aboriginal Australia, in which geometric symbolism remains fundamentally important.
In the Mesa Verde area of the ancient North American Southwest, living patterns changed in the thirteenth century, with large numbers of people moving into large communal dwellings called pueblos, often constructed at the edges of canyons, especially on the sides of cliffs.
Some scholars expand on this idea by emphasizing a corresponding need for arable land to feed growing numbers of people: construction of small dams, reservoirs, terraces, and field houses indicates  that  farmers  were  intensifying  their  efforts  during  the  1200s. 
Despite these conditions, however, many varieties of plants and animals have adapted to deserts in a number of ways.
Given a year of favorable precipitation, such plants will develop vigorously and produce large numbers of flowers and fruit.
the number of signs required had been reduced to 600, and the range of words that could be expressed had widened.
It is a rather shallow bowl that was crudely made in a mold; hence, in only a limited number of standard sizes.
It contained a number of channels lined by a sequence of holes, about 50 centimeters deep, all showing burn marks and filled with ashes.
Earth  s surface is not made up of a single sheet of rock that forms a crust but rather a number of   tectonic plates   that fit closely, like the pieces of a giant jigsaw puzzle.
Its numbers fall tenfold to thirty in a typical cycle, and a hundredfold change can occur.
As hare numbers fall, so do lynx numbers, as their food supply depleted.
Do increasing numbers of hares lead to overhavesting of plants, which in turn results in reduced hare populations, or do increasing numbers of lynx lead to overhavesting of hares?
When food was added to these plots (no food effect) and predators were excluded (no predator effect) from an experimental area, hare numbers increased tenfold and stayed there  the cycle was lost.
Other studies have shown that greater stimulation not only affects the size of the brain but also increases the number of connections between the nerve cells.
In that study, each of eight different trilobite species was observed to undergo a gradual change in the number of segments    typically an increase of one or two segments over the whole time interval.
Day and night were divided into the same number of parts, so that except at the equinoxes, day and night hours were unequal; and then of course the length of these hours varied with the seasons.
Pioneer species--- those that occur only in the earliest stages of colonization--- tend to have high rates of invasion because they produce very large numbers of reproductive propagules (seeds, spores, and so on) and because they have an efficient means of dispersal (normally, wind).
If colonizers produce short-lived reproductive propagules, then they must produce very large numbers unless they have an efficient means of dispersal to suitable new habitats.
Many forest plants seem to exhibit the latter adaptation, and viable seeds of pioneer species can be found in large numbers on some forest floors.
They also found that the number of potential nest sites was much greater than the number of bee colonies.
The number of colonies in the study area was not limited by availability of suitable trees, and a clumped or regular distribution of colonies was not due to an underlying clumped or regular distribution of potential nest sites.
Native grasses were replaced by a small number of plants cultivated as commodities.
The number of flowering plants (angiosperms) was reduced at this time, but they then began to increase dramatically.
He called for proof of the protectionist view: that visitations of the ants confer protection on the plants and that in the absence of the protectionist view: that visitations of the ants confer protection on the plants and that in the absence of the insects a much greater number would perish or fail to produce flowers or seeds than when the insects are present.
Typical numbers produced at the turn of the twentieth century were 100 million to 400 million years.
Since women are less fertile when they are breast-feeding, substituting cereals for mother  s milk would have resulted in closer spacing of births and the potential for a greater number of live births for each woman.
The impulse to produce more food to feed a growing population was satisfied in some areas by the development of more-complex subsistence strategies involving intensive labor and requiring more cooperation and greater coordination among the increasing numbers of people.
These organic metabolites could, and probably do, include a number of different classes of organic compounds.
Although each cell secretes a minute amount of toxin, the massive dinoflagellate numbers cause the toxin to reach concentrations that kill many creatures.
In addition, mammals such as moles, field mice, gophers, and prairie dogs sometimes are present in sufficient numbers to have significant impact on the soil.
Forbes also thought he saw, as he later told the British Association, that   the number of species and individuals diminishes as we descend, pointing to a zero in the distribution of animal life as yet unvisited.
This zero, Forbes casually speculated--he simply extended a line on his graph of animal number versus depth--probably began at a depth of 1,800 feet.
The number of translocations carried out under the banner of conservation has increased rapidly, and this has led to criticism of the technique because of the lack of evaluation of its efficacy and because of its potential disadvantages.
In a fragmented landscape where many populations and habitats are isolated from others, translocations can play an effective role in conservation strategies; they can increase the number of existing populations or increase the size, genetic diversity, and demographic balance of a small population, consequently increasing its chances of survival. 
Despite the large number of tranlocations that have taken place, there is surprisingly little evidence of the efficacy of such actions.
Careful habitat management increased this number to over 300 birds, but the single population remained vulnerable to local catastrophic events.
But to create usable high-rise buildings, a number of technical challenges needed to be solved.
and high numbers have been sustained ever since.
the number of raccoons in North America was estimated to be at least 15 to 20 times the number that existed during the 1930s.
By now, their numbers have undoubtedly grown even more, as they have continued to expand into new habitats where they were once either rare or absent, such as sandy prairies, deserts, coastal marshes, and mountains.
Despite significant numbers being harvested and having suffered occasional declines, typically because of disease, the raccoon has consistently maintained high population levels.
The control of coyotes in the prairie region in the 1950s may have been a factor in raccoon expansion, If their numbers are sufficient coyotes might be able to suppress raccoon populations (though little direct evidence supports this notion).
They are known from a diverse array of remains including eggshells, eggs, a few mummified carcasses, vast numbers of bones, and some older fossilized bone.
There is also a large mass of material, developed below ground as root tissues, but this is less apparent Careful analysis of the aboveground material reveals that it is arranged in a series of layers, the precise number of layers varying with age and the nature of the forest The arrangement of the biological mass (biomass) of the vegetation into layered forms is termed its "structure" (as opposed to its "composition", which refers to the species of organisms forming the community).
Venus and Earth are similar in size and mass, so Venusian volcanoes may well have outgassed as much water vapor as on Earth, and both planets would have had about the same number of comets strike their surfaces.
In the 1970s, a number of archaeologists gave trade a primary role in the rise of ancient states.
The bones of the fins of a Devonian rhipidistian exactly match in number and position the limb bones of the earliest known tetrapods, the amphibians.
These grazers supported in turn a number of impressive carnivores, including the giant short-faced bear, the saber-tooth cat, and a large species of lion.
The argument seemed to be at a standstill until a number of recent studies resulted in a spectacular suite of new finds.
If a number of people in the village were throwing letters off roofs, your friend would be bound to get one.
Sardines and anchovies provide the basis for huge commercial fisheries as well as a food resource for large numbers of local carnivores, particularly seabirds.
The contents of the earliest clay tablets are simple notations of numbers of commodities  animals, jars, baskets, etc.
They exercised an influence far in excess of their numbers.
In an experiment that began in 1982, they compared these values with the number of plant species in each plot and discovered that the plots with a greater number of plant species experienced a less dramatic reduction in biomass.
Falls in sea level often exposed a number of important land bridges, such as those linking Alaska to northeast Asia and Britain to northwest Europe, a phenomenon with far reaching effects not only on human colonization of the globe but also on the environment as a whole-the flora and fauna of isolated or insular areas were radically and often irreversibly affected.
The total number of books on the entire Continent was well under 100,000.
Among them were a large number of nonconformists whose religious principles encouraged thrift and industry rather than luxurious living and who tended to pour their profits back into their business, thus providing the basis for continued expansion.
