Thus, fantasy or fiction (of which drama is one form) permits people to objectify their anxieties and fears, confront them, and fulfill their hopes in fiction if not fact.
The world  s architectural structures have also been devised in relation to the objective limitations of materials.
Many shafts of spears and similar objects were decorated with figures of animals.
Demonstrations of infants   and toddlers' long-term memory have involved their repeating motor activities that they had seen or done earlier, such as reaching in the dark for objects, putting a bottle in a doll  s mouth, or pulling apart two pieces of a toy.
An objective of this particular cruise was to investigate the floor of the Mediterranean and to resolve questions about its geologic history.
Wildman and Niles observed that systematic reflection on teaching required a sound ability to understand classroom events in an objective manner.
Teachers rarely have the time or opportunities to view their own or the teaching of others in an objective manner.
The researchers estimate that the initial training of the teachers to view events objectively took between 20 and 30 hours, with the same number of hours again being required to practice the skills of reflection. 
The function and status of ceramics in China varied from dynasty to dynasty, so they may be utilitarian, burial, trade-collectors', or even ritual objects, according to their quality and the era in which they were made.
The ceramics fall into three broad types  earthenware, stoneware, and porcelain  for vessels, architectural items such as roof tiles, and modeled objects and figures.
To twentieth-century eyes, Chinese pottery may appear merely decorative, yet to the Chinese the form of each object and its adornment had meaning and significance.
Their settlements contain exotic objects such as seashells, stone bowls, and artifacts made of obsidian (volcanic glass), all traded from afar.
When broken open, Allende stones are revealed to contain an assortment of small, distinctive objects, spherical or irregular in shape and embedded in a dark gray matrix (binding material), which were once constituents of the solar nebula  the interstellar cloud of gas and dust out of which our solar system was formed.
), there first appeared a type of object that remained characteristic for Mesopotamia throughout its entire history: the cylinder seal.
In any case, in animals it consists of leaping, running, climbing, throwing, wrestling, and other movements, either alone, with objects, or with other animals.
Under the force of gravity, the compression resulting from a collapse of the object must release energy.
), the best known of the earliest Greek philosophers, made the first steps toward a new, more objective approach to finding out about the world.
Without experimentation and objective, critical testing of their theories, the best these thinkers could hope to achieve was some internally consistent speculation that covered all the bases and satisfied the demands of reason. 
Indeed, in this influential book Toward a New Architecture, the Swiss architect Le Corbusier illustrated his text with photographs of American factories and grain storage silos, as well as ships, airplanes, and other industrial objects.
Light microscopes can magnify objects up to 1,000 times without causing blurriness. 
Magnification, the increase in the apparent size of an object, is one important factor in microscopy.
Resolving power is the ability of an optical instrument to show two objects as separate.
In fact, the most powerful modern electron microscopes can distinguish objects as small as 0.2 nanometers, a thousandfold improvement over the light microscope.
The period at the end of this sentence is about a million times bigger than an object 0.2 nanometers in diameter, which is the size of a large atom.
Bartering was a basic trade mechanism for many thousands of years; often sporadic and usually based on notions of reciprocity, it involved the mutual exchange of commodities or objects between individuals or groups.
Rathje s hypothesis probably explains part of the complex process of Mayan state formation, but it suffers from the objection that suitable alternative raw materials can be found in the lowlands.
The survival of these craters tells us that an icy object can form and retain impact craters in its surface.
Callisto is unique among the planet-sized objects of the solar system in its absence of interior forces to drive geological evolution.
Cultural influences were of three types: the bringing of objects, the transfer of craft workers, and the introduction of massive civil architecture.
Many objects were not art in even the broadest sense and comprised utilitarian items of clothing, utensils, and equipment.
Mass-produced goods were accompanied by fewer more aesthetically impressive objects such as statuettes.
Once seen by the natives, such objects created a fashion which rapidly spread through the province. 
It was lavishly furnished with imported sculptures and other Classical objects.
