The fossil was officially named Pakicetus in honor of the country where the discovery was made.
Water absorption is greatly reduced; consequently runoff is increased, resulting in accelerated erosion rates.
It is the work of architects to create buildings that are not simply constructions but also offer inspiration and delight.
The researchers Peter Ucko and Andree Rosenfeld identified three principal locations of paintings in the caves of western Europe: (1) in obviously inhabited rock shelters and cave entrances; (2) in galleries immediately off the inhabited areas of caves; and (3) in the inner reaches of caves, whose difficulty of access has been interpreted by some as a sign that magical-religious activities were performed there. 
More than one-quarter of the world  s oil and almost one-fifth of the world  s natural gas come from offshore, even though offshore drilling is six to seven times more expensive than drilling on land.
Spillage from huge oil-carrying cargo ships, called tankers, involved in collisions or accidental groundings (such as the one off Alaska in 1989) can create oil slicks at sea.
This scenario begins with the planting of hyperaccumulating species in the target area, such as an abandoned mine or an irrigation pond contaminated by runoff.
A harvest of the shoots would remove the toxic compounds off site to be burned or composted to recover the metal for industrial uses.
General knowledge of categories of events such as a birthday party or a visit to the doctor's office helps older individuals encode their experiences, but again, infants and toddlers are unlikely to encode many experiences within such knowledge structures.
The organizational bonds were based on the common principles of law and administration and on the universal army of officials who enforced common standards of conduct.
Their calculations show that the impact kicked up a dust cloud that cut off sunlight for several months, inhibiting photosynthesis in plants; decreased surface temperatures on continents to below freezing; caused extreme episodes of acid rain; and significantly raised long-term global temperatures through the greenhouse effect.
Two types of flow features are seen: runoff channels and outflow channels.
Runoff channels are found in the southern highlands.
Runoff channels on Mars speak of a time 4 billion years ago (the age of the Martian highlands), when the atmosphere was thicker, the surface warmer, and liquid water widespread.
These new characteristics offered better ways for the seed to move to new habitats.
One possibility is that a noisy baby bird provides accurate signals of its real hunger and good health, making it worthwhile for the listening parent to give it food in a nest where several other offspring are usually available to be fed.
If parent birds use begging intensity to direct food to healthy offspring capable of vigorous begging, then parents should make food delivery decisions on the basis of their offsprings   calls.
As these experiments show, begging apparently provides a signal of need that parents use to make judgments about which offspring can benefit most from a feeding.
The introduction of new screen formats was put off for a quarter century, and color, though utilized over the next two decades for special productions, also did not become a norm until the 1950s.
To be sure, their evaluation of the technical flaws in 1920s sound experiments was not so far off the mark, yet they neglected to take into account important new forces in the motion picture field that, in a sense, would not take no for an answer.
Advertisers sometimes offset or counterbalance an exaggerated claim with a disclaimer  a qualification or condition on the claim.
An adult leatherback is twice the size of the biggest cheloniid sea turtles and will therefore take longer to cool off.
This iridium anomaly offers strong support for the Alvarez hypothesis even though no asteroid itself has ever been recovered.
A maritime code known as the Consulate of the Sea, which originated in the western Mediterranean region in the fourteenth century, won acceptance by a majority of sea goers as the normative code for maritime conduct; it defined such matters as the authority of a ship's officers, protocols of command, pay structures, the rights of sailors, and the rules of engagement when ships met one another on the sea-lanes.
The virus was less deadly to the offspring of surviving rabbits, however, and it caused less and less harm over the years.
Recent measurements made in the field together with laboratory simulations offer a promising explanation of how this structure of charged particles forms.
They subsisted offspring migrations of Persian gazelles from the south.
Each tidal cycle carries plant material into the offshore water to be used by the subtidal organisms.
Artists were fascinated by photography because it offered a way of examining the world in much greater detail.
With much of the built-up landscape impenetrable by water, even gentle rain runs off almost immediately from rooftops, streets, and parking lots.
Water enters a lake from inflowing rivers, from underwater seeps and springs, from overland flow off the surrounding land, and from rain falling directly on the lake surface.
Arsenale officers first brought timber from the foothills of the Alps, then from north toward Trieste, and finally from across the Adriatic.
The Portuguese Vasco de Gama  s Voyaga around southern Afica to India  took place at the end of the fifteenth century, and by 1502 the trans- Abrabian caravan route had been cut off by political unrest.
South African farmers who maintain herds of wild eland (large African antelopes with short, twisted horns) report that the offspring soon diminish in size, unless wild bulls are introduced constantly from outside.
We know from rock paintings deep in the Sahara that the herders were soon selecting breeding animals to produce offspring with different horn shapes and hide colors.
For example, Peter Sheldon  s studies of trilobites, a now extinct marine animal with a segmented body, offer a detailed glimpse into three million years of evolution in one marine environment.
In addition, barriers can rapidly arise and shut off the trickle.
The change separated populations of insects now living along opposite shore, completely cutting off gene flow between them.
For example, during past ice ages, glaciers advanced down through North America and Europe and gradually cut off parts of populations from one another.
Because Graves  s study of geographically isolated populations of Isthmus fishes offers a glimpse of the beginning of a process of gradual accumulation of mutations that are neutral or adaptive, divergences here might be evidence of allopatric speciation in process. 
These families were pensioned off(given a sum of money to live on) or simply had their revenues taken away or restricted; their sons were enticed away to schools for district officers, later to be posted in some faraway  province; and the old patron-client relations that had bound together local societies simply disintegrated.
Provincial police began to appear, along with district officers and cattle registration and land deeds and registration for compulsory military service.
The workers from the two colonies faced off in two swarms and displayed and fought with each other.
When the two bees hit the ground, they separated, faced off, and performed another aerial display.
While some of these urban centers were identified with a particular economic function, such as proximity to gold or iron deposits or a strategic location on a major trade route, others served primarily as administrative centers or the site of temples for the official cult or other ritual observances.
The earlier unbroken landscape gave way to independent farms, each fenced off in a precise checkerboard pattern.
Finally, trees perform the vital function of slowing water runoff and holding the soil in place with their root systems, thus combating erosion.
In 1841 Edward Forbes was offered the chance to serve as naturalist aboard HMS Beacon, an English Royal Navy ship assigned to survey the Aegean Sea.
The idea of natural selection is that organisms in a species that have characteristics favoring survival are most likely to survive and produce offspring with the same characteristics.
This is partly because many translocations have not been strictly for conservation; neither have they been official nor legal, let alone scientific in their approach.
The ways in which new technology transformed architectural design are dramatically illustrated through the evolution of the high-rise office building.
As an example of the ease with which transplanted individuals can succeed, raccoons from Indiana (midwestern United States) have reportedly been able to flourish on islands off the coast of Alaska.
In such areas, their arboreal habits and the presence of hollow den trees should have offered some protection from wolves and other large predators.
If the crop plants hybridize and reproduce with weedy relatives, then this herbicide-resistant gene will be perpetuated in the offspring.
When these resistant insects mate, they will produce a high proportion of offspring capable of surviving in the presence of the Bt toxin.
Cuneiform texts on science, astronomy, medicine, and mathematics abound, some offering astoundingly precise data.
Entering the polls age, Athens had the traditional institutions of other Greek protodemocratic states: an assembly of adult males, an aristocratic council, and annually elected officials.
The first steps toward change were taken by Solon in 594 B.C., when he broke the aristocracy  s stranglehold on elected offices by establishing wear rather than birth as the basis of office holding, abolishing the economic obligations of ordinary Athenians to the aristocracy, and allowing the assembly (of which all citizens were equal members) to overrule the decisions of local courts in certain cases.
North of the Pyrenees Mountains, the natterjack toad offers a good example of hibernation, passing the winter dug deep into sandy ground.
Over time, the rising temperatures would have leveled off, solar ultraviolet radiation having broken down atmospheric water vapor molecules into hydrogen and oxygen.
This focus on explaining dinosaur extinction misses an important point: the extinction at the end of the Cretaceous was a global event that killed off organisms up and down the food chain.
In these situations, water temperatures are raised not just along the coast, but for thousands of kilometers offshore.
The processes that interact to produce an El  Nifio involve conditions all across the Pacific, not just in the waters off South America.
In contrast, Paul Colinvaux has offered a counterargument based on the analysis of pollen in lake sediments dating to the last ice age.
If a number of people in the village were throwing letters off roofs, your friend would be bound to get one.
The individual traveling merchant who alone handled virtually all aspects of exchange evolved into an operation invoh/ing three separate types of merchants: the sedentary merchant who ran the "home office," financing and organizing the firm  s entire export-import trade; the carriers who transported goods by land and sea; and the company agents resident in cities abroad who, on the advice of the home office, looked after sales and procurements.
Commercial accounting became more complex when firms had to deal with shareholders, manufacturers, customers, branch offices, employees, and competing firms.
Hanseatic merchants established foreign trading centers, the most famous of which was the London Steelyard, a walled community with warehouses, offices, a church, and residential quarters for company representatives.
Such pieces perhaps first came with officials for their own religious worship; others were then acquired by native leaders as diplomatic gifts or by purchase.
As many of the officials in Britain had strong links with Gaul, it is not surprising that early Roman Britain owes much to craft workers from that area.
Their physical structure is dominated by the skeletons of corals, which are carnivorous animals living off zooplankton.
The 2,000 kilometer complex of reefs known as the Great Barrier Reef, which forms a gigantic natural breakwater off the northeast coast of Australia, is by far the greatest coral structure on Earth.
Additional city heat is given off at night (and during the day) by vehicles and factories, as well as by industrial and domestic heating and cooling units.
The assessment of past rises and falls in sea level requires study of submerged land surfaces off the coast and of raised of elevated beaches on land.
