At first thought it seems incredible that there can be enough space in the   solid   ground underfoot to hold all this water. 
Consolidated (or cemented) sediments, too, contain millions of minute water-holding pores.
If the pores are large, the water in them will exist as drops too heavy for surface tension to hold, and it will drain away; but if the pores are small enough, the water in them will exist as thin films, too light to overcome the force of surface tension holding them in place; then the water will be firmly held. 
In 1979, a team looking for fossils in northern Pakistan found what proved to be the oldest fossil whale.
Pakicetus was found embedded in rocks formed from river deposits that were 52 million years old.
He refused to develop projection technology, reasoning that if he made and sold projectors, then exhibitors would purchase only one machine-a projector-from him instead of several.
Unfortunately, the cost of water obtained through any of these schemes would increase pumping costs at least tenfold, making the cost of irrigated agricultural products from the region uncompetitive on the national and international markets.
The early explorers and settlers told of abundant deer in the early 1800s and yet almost in the same breath bemoaned the lack of this succulent game animal.
Some of those slabs appear to have been painted as much as 28,000 years ago, which suggests that painting in Africa is as old as painting in Europe.
But painting may be even older than that.
Typically, older leaves are affected first as the phosphorus is mobilized to young growing tissue.
Scientists have known for some time that certain plants, called hyperaccumulators, can concentrate minerals at levels a hundredfold or greater than normal.
Many older theories implicitly deprecated the navigational abilities and overall cultural creativity of the Pacific islanders.
The Ediacara fossil formation, which contains the oldest known animal fossils, consists exclusively of soft-bodied forms.
This 700-million-year-old formation gives few clues to the origins of modern animals, however, because paleontologists believe it represents an evolutionary experiment that failed.
Perhaps another ancient fossil bed of soft-bodied animals from 600-million-year-old seas is awaiting discovery.
He received rudimentary village schooling, but mostly he roamed his uncle's farm collecting the fossils that were so abundant in the rocks of the Cotswold hills.
When he grew older, William Smith taught himself surveying from books he bought with his small savings, and at the age of eighteen he was apprenticed to a surveyor of the local parish.
Quartz is quartz  a silicon ion surrounded by four oxygen ions  there  s no difference at all between two-million-year-old Pleistocene quartz and Cambrian quartz created over 500 million years ago.
As he collected fossils from strata throughout England, Smith began to see that the fossils told a different story from the rocks.
Children two and a half to three years old remember experiences that occurred in their first year, and eleven month olds remember some events a year later.
Nor does the hypothesis that infantile amnesia reflects repression  or holding back  of sexually charged episodes explain the phenomenon.
Consistent with this view, parents and children increasingly engage in discussions of past events when children are about three years old.
Telling such stories to two year olds does not seem to produce long-lasting verbalizable memories.
A third likely explanation for infantile amnesia involves incompatibilities between the ways in which infants encode information and the ways in which older children and adults retrieve it.
This view is supported by a variety of factors that can create mismatches between very young children's encoding and older children's and adults' retrieval efforts.
General knowledge of categories of events such as a birthday party or a visit to the doctor's office helps older individuals encode their experiences, but again, infants and toddlers are unlikely to encode many experiences within such knowledge structures.
Most of the older organisms were nearly wiped out, although a few hardy species survived.
Soon layer of oceanic ooze began to accumulate above the old hard layer.
It was no accident that many leading Roman soldiers and statesmen were writers of high caliber.
Data from diverse sources, including geochemical evidence preserved in seafloor sediments, indicate that the Late Cretaceous climate was milder than today  s. The days were not too hot, nor the nights too cold.
Over a period of about 100,000 years, while the seas pulled back, climates around the world became dramatically more extreme: warmer days, cooler nights; hotter summers, colder winters.
If true, though, why did cold-blooded animals such as snakes, lizards, turtles, and crocodiles survive the freezing winters and torrid summers?
Their absence supports the picture of a cold, dry Mars that never experienced the extended mild period required to form lakes and oceans.
A few of these spores found a toehold on the dark, forbidding rocks and grew and began to work their transformation upon the land.
Now, other forms of life could take hold: ferns and mosses (two of the most ancient types of land plants) that flourish even in rock crevices.
China has one of the world's oldest continuous civilizations  despite invasions and occasional foreign rule.
The tradition of religious sculpture extends over most historical periods but is less clearly delineated than that of stonewares or porcelains, for it embraces the old custom of earthenware burial ceramics with later religious images and architectural ornament.
By the middle of the sixteenth century, financiers and traders commonly accepted bills of exchange in place of gold or silver for other goods.
Bills of exchange, which had their origins in medieval Italy, were promissory notes (written promises to pay a specified amount of money by a certain date) that could be sold to third parties.
Merchants no longer had to carry gold and silver over long, dangerous journeys.
The rapid expansion in international trade also benefitted from an infusion of capital, stemming largely from gold and silver brought by Spanish vessels from the Americas.
The question is not why they would leave the cold of winter so much as how they find their way around.
In the few cases where an Ice Age figure is depicted holding something, it is mostly, though not always, in the right hand.
Right-handed soldiers tend to be wounded on the left.
The skeleton of a 40- or 50-year-old Nabatean warrior, buried 2,000 years ago in the Negev Desert, Israel, had multiple healed fractures to the skull, the left arm, and the ribs.
Deserts contain large amounts of groundwater when compared to the amounts they hold in surface stores such as lakes and rivers.
The author George Comstock suggested that less than a quarter of children between the ages of six and eight years old understood standard disclaimers used in many toy advertisements and that disclaimers are more readily comprehended when presented in both audio and visual formats.
It was also found that older children responded more positively to products in host selling advertisements.
Such rules limit variations in accumulated material goods between pastoralist households (though they may also encourage a taste for portable goods of high value such as silks or jewelry).
It swims farther into the cold of the northern and southern oceans than any other sea turtle, and it deals with the chilly waters in a way unique among reptiles.
Gigantothermy, though, would not be enough to keep a leatherback warm in cold northern waters.
This is the same arrangement found in an old-fashioned steam radiator, in which the coiled pipes pass heat back and forth as water  courses through them.
We do not know how old, or how large, a leatherback has to be before it can switch from a cold-blooded to a warm-blooded mode of life.
Mendeleyev was bolder than Meyer and even assumed that if a measured atomic mass put an element in the wrong place in the table, the atomic mass was wrong.
On the other hand, a comparatively warm body with a small surface gravity, like Earth's moon, is unable to hold even the heaviest gas and thus lacks an atmosphere.
Volunteers were told to think about yawning while they breathed either normal air, pure oxygen, or an air mixture with an above-normal level of carbon dioxide.
A completely different theory holds that yawning assists in the physical development of the lungs early in life, but has no remaining biological function in adults.
Such yawning is often referred to as "incongruous" because it seems out of place, at least on the tiredness view: soldiers yawning before combat, musicians yawning before performing, and athletes yawning before competing.
What happens is that small (millimeter-to centimeter-size) pellets of ice form in the cold upper regions of the cloud.
Below this large, cold, negatively charged region, the cloud is warmer than -15  , and at these temperatures, collisions between ice crystals and falling ice pellets produce positively charged ice pellets that then populate a small region at the base of the cloud. 
Assessing the impact of the army on the civilian population starts from the realization that the soldiers were always unevenly distributed across the country.
The imposition of a military base involved the requisition of native lands for both the fort and the territory needed to feed and exercise the soldiers' animals.
When not campaigning, soldiers needed to be occupied; otherwise they represented a potentially dangerous source of friction and disloyalty.
Each soldier received his pay, but in regions without a developed economy there was initially little on which it could be spent.
There was informal marriage with soldiers, who until AD 197 were not legally entitled to wed, and whole new communities grew up near the forts.
The army also provided a mean of personal advancement for auxiliary soldiers recruited from the native peoples, as a man obtained hereditary Roman citizenship on retirement after service in an auxiliary regiment.
By the later Roman period, frontier garrisons (groups of soldiers) were only rarely transferred, service in units became effectively hereditary, and forts were no longer populated or maintained at full strength.
Between the older layers of glacial material were well-developed soils containing fossils of warm-climate plants.
Indeed, unaltered shells of marine invertebrates are known from deposits over 100 million years old.
How old were you?
Perhaps the explanation goes back to some ideas raised by influential Swiss psychologist Jean Piaget  namely, that children under age two years represent events in a qualitatively different form than older children do.
According to this line of thought, the verbal abilities that blossom in the two year old allow events to be coded in a form radically different from the action-based codes of the infant.
Verbal abilities of one year olds are, in fact, related to their memories for events one year later.
When researchers had one year olds imitate an action sequence one year after they first saw it, there was correlation between the children's verbal skills at the time they first saw the event and their success on the later memory task.
For the first time industrial waste, such as ash from the soap-boilers, was collected in the cities and sold in the country as artificial fertilizer.
This in itself is an almost incomprehensible span of generations, and one that makes Australia  s rock art the oldest continuous art tradition in the world.
The frequency with which certain simple motifs appear in these oldest sites has led rock-art researchers to adopt a descriptive term  the Panaramitee style  a label which takes its name from the extensive rock pavements at Panaramitee North in desert South Australia, which are covered with motifs pecked into the surface.
If something blocks the "good" side, such as congestion from allergies or a cold, then resistance increases dramatically.
Abandoning small extended-family households to move into these large pueblos with dozens if not hundreds of other people was probably traumatic.
Few of the cultural traditions and rules that today allow us to deal with dense populations existed for these people accustomed to household autonomy and the ability to move around the landscape almost at will.
Sharing and cooperation were almost certainly part of early Puebloan life, even for people living in largely independent single-household residences scattered across the landscape.
Gradually, Venice's role as a storage and distribution center for spices and silk, dyes cotton, and gold decayed, and by the early seventeenth century Venice had lost its monopoly in markets such as France and southern Germany.
Production of British cotton goods increased sixtyfold, and cotton cloth became Great Britain  s most important product, accounting for one-half of all exports.
It is a rather shallow bowl that was crudely made in a mold; hence, in only a limited number of standard sizes.
This has been interpreted as the remains of a workshop where molten metal was scooped up from the channel and poured into molds in the holes.
In the 1840s American geologist James Daly observed that the different Hawaii Islands seem to share a similar geologic evolution but are progressively more eroded, and therefore probably older, toward the northwest.
The oldest volcanoes in the Hawaii hot-spot trail have ages close to 80 million years.
So the position of the Pacific Plate 50 million years ago can be determined by moving it such that a 50-million-year-old volcano in the hot-spot trail sits at the location of Hawaii today.
The wolves eat mostly old or diseased animals that would not survive long anyway.
Its numbers fall tenfold to thirty in a typical cycle, and a hundredfold change can occur.
When food was added to these plots (no food effect) and predators were excluded (no predator effect) from an experimental area, hare numbers increased tenfold and stayed there  the cycle was lost.
Under these circumstances, archaeologist Andrew Smith believes, the small herds of Bos primigenius in the desert became smaller, more closely knit breeding units as the drought took hold.
Third, older, more dominant bucks produce more buck rubs and probably deposit more glandular secretions on a given rub.
Thus, the presence of many well-marked rubs is indicative of older, higher-status males being in the general vicinity rather than simply being a crude measure of relative deer abundance in a given area.
Fresher buck rubs (less than two days old), in particular, are visited more frequently by adult females than older rubs.
Most are made by older males, although females and younger males (2.5 years old or less) occasionally make scrapes.
This is not just an aesthetic consideration but also a practical one.These vessels are solid (brittle, but not fragile), they are pleasant and easy to handle (being light and smooth), and, with their hard and sometimes glossy (smooth and shiny) surfaces, they hold liquids well and are easy to wash.
Sometimes a closed question must be reopened as new evidence or new arguments based on old evidence come to light.
In Europe, before the introduction of the mechanical clock, people told time by sun (using, for example, shadow sticks or sun dials) and water clocks.
All this was compatible with older devices so long as there was only one authoritative timekeeper; but with urban growth and the multiplication of time signals, discrepancy brought discord and strife.
Preschools---educational programs for children under the age of five---differ significantly from one country to another according to the views that different societies hold regarding the purpose of early childhood education.
For example, as many as 1,125 viable seeds per square meter were found in a 100-year-old Douglas fir/western hemlock forest in coastal British Columbia.
The old ruling families were being displaced by an evolving centralized government.
These families were pensioned off(given a sum of money to live on) or simply had their revenues taken away or restricted; their sons were enticed away to schools for district officers, later to be posted in some faraway  province; and the old patron-client relations that had bound together local societies simply disintegrated.
While some of these urban centers were identified with a particular economic function, such as proximity to gold or iron deposits or a strategic location on a major trade route, others served primarily as administrative centers or the site of temples for the official cult or other ritual observances.
Before the railroad reached Tennessee, the state produced about 25,000 bushels (or 640 tons) of wheat, which sold for less than 50 cents a bushel.
Once the railroad came, farmers in the same counties grew 400,000 bushels (over 10,000 tons) and sold their crop at a dollar a bushel.
For many years scientists assumed that a cooling of the climate was responsible, with dinosaurs being particularly vulnerable because, like modern reptiles, they were ectothermic (dependent on environmental heat, or cold-blooded).
Most were made for sale on the open market, and cities boasted special souks(markets) where books were bought and sold.
But Russia  s potential for growth was limited too, and in a few decades Russia would reach the barrier of inadequate energy that was already holding England back.
These underestimated the actual age by factors of 10 to 50 because much of the sedimentary record is missing in various locations and because there is a long rock sequence that is older than half a billion years that is far less well defined in terms of fossils and less well preserved.
From the initial work came a suite of discoveries leading to radio isotopic dating, which quickly led to the realization that Earth must be billions of years old, and to the discovery of nuclear fusion as an energy source capable of sustaining the Sun's luminosity for that amount of time.
Cereals, which are easy to digest, would have supplemented and then replaced mother's milk as the primary food for older infants.
Finally, trees perform the vital function of slowing water runoff and holding the soil in place with their root systems, thus combating erosion.
Forbes also thought he saw, as he later told the British Association, that   the number of species and individuals diminishes as we descend, pointing to a zero in the distribution of animal life as yet unvisited.
He found that the deeper the water, the colder it got, and he concluded that the seafloor was covered with a thick layer of ice.
They imagined the deep sea as being filled with an unmoving and undisturbable pool of cold, dense water.
In reality the deep is always being refreshed by cold water sinking from above.
In fact, the most powerful modern electron microscopes can distinguish objects as small as 0.2 nanometers, a thousandfold improvement over the light microscope.
The oldest cuneiform texts recorded the transactions of tax collectors and merchants, the receipts and bills of sale of an urban society.
More esoteric texts attempt to explain old Babylonian customs, such as the procedure for curing someone who is ill, which included rubbing tar and gypsum on the sick person  s door and drawing a design at the foot of the person  s bed.
They are known from a diverse array of remains including eggshells, eggs, a few mummified carcasses, vast numbers of bones, and some older fossilized bone.
However, loggers concentrated on removing those big, old, valuable, fire-resistant ponderosa pines, while fire suppression for decades let the understory fill up with Douglas fir saplings that would in turn become valuable when full-grown.
The first steps toward change were taken by Solon in 594 B.C., when he broke the aristocracy  s stranglehold on elected offices by establishing wear rather than birth as the basis of office holding, abolishing the economic obligations of ordinary Athenians to the aristocracy, and allowing the assembly (of which all citizens were equal members) to overrule the decisions of local courts in certain cases.
It was precisely this opportunity to participate in public life that provided a stimulus for the briar unfolding of classical Greek culture.
The principal elements in behavioral thermoregulation are basking (heliothermy), heat exchange with substrates such as rock or earth (thigmothermy)  and diurnal and annual avoidance behaviors, which include moving to shelter during the day for cooling and hibernating or estivating (reducing activity during cold or hot weather, respectively).
About one-quarter of its surface seems to be as old and heavily cratered; the rest formed more recently, as we can tell by the sparse covering of impact craters as well as the relative freshness of the craters.
In some places older impact craters were split and pulled apart.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the highest ratio of oil and gas pools to volume of sediment is found in rock no older than 2.5 million years  young enough so that little of the petroleum has leaked away  and that nearly 60 percent of all oil and gas discovered so far has been found in strata that formed in the last 65 million years This does not mean that older rocks produced less petroleum; it simply means that oil in older rocks has had a longer time in which to leak away.
The cold Humboldt Current of the Pacific Ocean flows toward the equator along the coasts of Ecuador and Peru in South America.
When the current approaches the equator, the westward-flowing trade winds cause nutrient-rich cold water along the coast to rise from deeper depths to more shallow ones.
Every year during the months of December and January, a weak, warm countercurrent replaces the normally cold coastal waters.
In fact, this is the time of year they traditionally set aside to tend to their equipment and await the return of cold water.
The western Pacific develops a thick, warm layer of water while the eastern Pacific has the cold Humboldt Current enhanced by upwelling.
For example, in areas of the cold North Atlantic, ice may form in winter.
These included a common mammalian fauna of large mammals, a common flora composed of broad grasslands as well as wind-swept dunes and tundra, and a common climate with cold, dry winters and somewhat wanner summers.
The presence of mammal species that require grassland vegetation has led Arctic biologist Dale Guthrie to argue that while cold and dry, there must have been broad areas of dense vegetation to support herds of mammoth, horse, and bison.
Moreover, dangling catkins like hazel hold the pollen in until the wind is strong enough to bend them, ensuring that pollen is only shed into the air when the wind is blowing hard.
Commercial accounting became more complex when firms had to deal with shareholders, manufacturers, customers, branch offices, employees, and competing firms.
The worker and soldier castes of social ants, bees, and wasps consist of only females, all daughters of a single queen that mated soon after she matured and thereafter never mated again.
The worker and soldier castes of termites consist of both males and females, and the queen lives permanently with a male consort. 
When it is cold in winter, subterranean termites move to burrows below the frost line. 
In the years 1446-1448, two German goldsmiths, Johannes Gutenberg and Johann Fust, made use of cheap paper to introduce a critical improvement in the way written pages were reproduced.
Printing from wooden blocks was the old method; what the Germans did was to invent movable type for the letterpress.
It had three merits: it could be used repeatedly until worn out; it was cast in metal from a mold and so could be renewed without difficulty; and it made lettering uniform.
The old monastic scriptoria-monastery workshops where monks copied texts by hand-worked closely alongside the new presses, continuing to produce the luxury goods that movable-type printing could not yet supply.
Nonlandholding peasants and cottage workers, who worked for wages and grazed cows or pigs on the village common, were also hurt when the common was no longer available.
