Like the stone of Roman wall, which were held together both by the regularity of the design and by that peculiarly powerful Roman cement, so the various parts of the Roman realm were bonded into a massive, monolithic entity by physical, organizational, and psychological controls.
The organizational bonds were based on the common principles of law and administration and on the universal army of officials who enforced common standards of conduct.
Roman priorities lay in the organization, exploitation, and defense of their territory.
From this arose the Roman genius for military organization and orderly government.
The Roman genius was projected into new spheres  especially into those of law, military organization, administration, and engineering.
In the multiplicity of small-scale local egalitarian or quasi-egalitarian organizations for fellowship, worship, and production that flourished in this laissez-faire environment, individuals could interact with one another within a community of harmony and ideological equality, following their own popularly elected leaders and governing themselves by shared consensus while minimizing distinctions of wealth and power.
They were no longer a series of small bands but lived in a large community with more elaborate social organization, probably grouped into clans of people of common descent.
Second, what is its stylistic organization and is it possible to discern a sequence or a pattern of development between styles?
Since the mid-1970s, a reasonably stable picture has formed of the organization of Australian rock art.
It was this that made the organization of irrigation, particularly the building of canals to channel and preserve the water, essential.
Evidence suggests that an important stimulus behind the rise of early civilizations was the development of settled agriculture, which unleashed a series of changes in the organization of human communities that culminated in the rise of large ancient empires.
The appearance of these sedentary societies had a major impact on the social organizations, religious beliefs, and way of life of the peoples living within their boundaries.
The organization of such societies could be rather simple, revolving around age and gender categories.
In time, this organization became a state, and knowledge of its functioning was exportable, as were pottery, tropical bird feathers, specialized stone materials, and other local commodities.
There may or may not have been a market organization.
