The relative amount of these two kinds of water varies greatly from one kind of rock or sediment to another, even though their porosities may be the same.
Thus, the recalling of an event (a hunt, battle, or other feat) is elaborated through the narrator  s pantomime and impersonation and eventually through each role being assumed by a different person.
Another, advanced in the twentieth century, suggests that humans have a gift for fantasy, through which they seek to reshape reality into more satisfying forms than those encountered in daily life.
Another condition that contributes to the development of autonomous theater is the emergence of the aesthetic sense.
Too much snow, for example, can smother trees, and avalanches and snow creep can damage or destroy them.
Some scientists have proposed that the presence of increasing levels of ultraviolet light with elevation may play a role, while browsing and grazing animals like the ibex may be another contributing factor.
The skull also lacks a blowhole, another cetacean adaptation for diving.
Another major discovery was made in Egypt in 1989.
Several skeletons of another early whale, Basilosaurus, were found in sediments left by the Tethys Sea and now exposed in the Sahara desert.
In other cases, the finer particles may be removed, while the sand-sized particles are accumulated to form mobile hills or ridges of sand. 
But the movies differed significantly from these other forms of entertainment, which depended on either live performance or (in the case of the slide-and-lantern shows) the active involvement of a master of ceremonies who assembled the final program.
Even though early exhibitors shaped their film programs by mixing films and other entertainments together in whichever way they thought would be most attractive to audiences or by accompanying them with lectures, their creative control remained limited.
It suddenly became public  an experience that the viewer shared with dozens, scores, and even hundreds of others.
The other species, the Columbian white-tailed deer, in earlier times was common in the open prairie country; it is now restricted to the low, marshy islands and flood plains along the lower Columbia River. 
Where the forest inhibits the growth of grass and other meadow plants, the black-tailed deer browses on huckleberry, salal, dogwood, and almost any other shrub or herb.
Even with snow on the ground, the high bushy understory is exposed; also snow and wind bring down leafy branches of cedar, hemlock, red alder, and other arboreal fodder. 
Wildlife zoologist Helmut Buechner(1953), in reviewing the nature of biotic changes in Washington through recorded time, says that "since the early 1940s, the state has had more deer than at any other time in its history, the winter population fluctuating around approximately 320,000 deer (mule and black-tailed deer), which will yield about 65,000 of either sex and any age annually for an indefinite period."
The causes of this population rebound are consequences of other human actions.
Another explanation for the focus on animals might be that these people sought to improve their luck at hunting.
For example, wild cattle (bovines) and horses are portrayed more often than we would expect by chance, probably because they were larger and heavier (meatier) than other animals in the environment.
In addition to other artworks, figurines representing the human female in exaggerated form have also been found at Upper Paleolithic sites.
Some oil lies under regions where drilling is forbidden, such as national parks or other public lands.
Aeroponics, a technique in which plants are suspended and the roots misted with a nutrient solution, is another method for growing plants without soil.
Saline soils, which have high concentrations of sodium chloride and other salts, limit plant growth, and research continues to focus on developing salt-tolerant varieties of agricultural crops.
A survey of known hyperaccumulators identified that 75 percent of them amassed nickel, cobalt, copper, zinc, manganese, lead, and cadmium are other minerals of choice.
During a geologically brief 100-million-year period, all modern animal groups (along with other animals that are now extinct) evolved.
These fossil beds provide evidence of about 32 modern animal groups, plus about 20 other animal body forms that are so different from any modern animals that they cannot be assigned to any one of the modern groups.
Perhaps another ancient fossil bed of soft-bodied animals from 600-million-year-old seas is awaiting discovery.
Only the last of these was suited at all to the continuous operating of machines, and although waterpower abounded in Lancashire and Scotland and ran grain mills as well as textile mills, it had one great disadvantage: streams flowed where nature intended them to, and water-driven factories had to be located on their banks whether or not the location was desirable for other reasons.
These problems needed still another solution, and the ingredients for it lay close at hand.
Another generation passed before inventors succeeded in combining these ingredients, by putting the engine on wheels and the wheels on the rails, so as to provide a machine to take the place of the horse.
While rock between two consistent strata might in one place be shale and in another sandstone, the fossils in that shale or sandstone were always the same.
Some fossils endured through so many millions of years that they appear in many strata, but others occur only in a few strata, and a few species had their births and extinctions within one particular stratum.
Not only could Smith identify rock strata by the fossils they contained, he could also see a pattern emerging: certain fossils always appear in more ancient sediments, while others begin to be seen as the strata become more recent.
Another seemingly plausible explanation  that infants do not form enduring memories at this point in development  also is incorrect.
Three other explanations seem more promising.
These three explanations of infantile amnesia are not mutually exclusive; indeed, they support each other.
Another task for the Glomar Challenger  s scientists was to try to determine the origin of the domelike masses buried deep beneath the Mediterranean seafloor.
There is a quality of cohesiveness about the Roman world that applied neither to Greece nor perhaps to any other civilization, ancient or modern.
Subsequently, other crops, such as bananas, were introduced from Southeast Asia.
The exact role of other factors is much more difficult to pinpoint Dfor instance, Teotihuac  n  s religious significance as a shrine, the historical situation in and around the Valley of Mexico toward the end of the first millennium B.C., the ingenuity and foresightedness of Teotihuac  n  s elite, and, finally, the impact of natural disasters, such as the volcanic eruptions of the late first millennium B.C.
The valley, like many other places in Mexican and Guatemalan highlands, was rich in obsidian.
However, other reliable evidence suggests that the deposition of the boundary clay could not have taken one million years.
This disruption of food chain and climate would have eradicated the dinosaurs and other organisms in less than fifty years.
The Hellas Basin, which measures some 3,000 kilometers across and has a floor that lies nearly 9 kilometers below the basin  s rim, is another candidate for an ancient Martian sea.
Fladmark and other believe that the first human colonization of America occurred by boat along the Northwest Coast during the very late Ice Age, possibly as early as 14,000 years ago.
Teachers rarely have the time or opportunities to view their own or the teaching of others in an objective manner.
The teachers in the program described how they found it difficult to put aside the immediate demands of others in order to give themselves the time they needed to develop their reflective skills.
The third is the development of a collaborative environment with support from other teachers.
When the Hawaiian Islands emerged from the sea as volcanoes, starting about five million years ago, they were far removed from other landmasses.
Now, other forms of life could take hold: ferns and mosses (two of the most ancient types of land plants) that flourish even in rock crevices.
Vast numbers of them fall on the ground beneath the mother plants.
Many millions of years after ferns evolved (but long before the Hawaiian Islands were born from the sea), another kind of flora evolved on Earth: the seed-bearing plants.
Information on temperature, rainfall, and other aspects of the climate that can be inferred from the systematic changes in properties is usually referred to as proxy data.
While these records provide broadly consistent indications that temperature variations can occur on a global scale, there are nonetheless some intriguing differences, which suggest that the pattern of temperature variations in regional climates can also differ significantly from each other.
The development of banking and other financial services contributed to the expansion of trade.
By the middle of the sixteenth century, financiers and traders commonly accepted bills of exchange in place of gold or silver for other goods.
Unlike short-term financial cooperation between investors for a single commercial undertaking, joint-stock companies provided permanent funding of capital by drawing on the investments of merchants and other investors who purchased shares in the company.
In fact, a lack of understanding concerning the purposes of Egyptian art has often led it to be compared unfavorably with the art of other cultures: Why did the Egyptians not develop sculpture in which the body turned and twisted through space like classical Greek statuary?
Apart from statues representing deities, kings, and named members of the elite that can be called formal, there is another group of three-dimensional representations that depicts generic figures, frequently servants, from the nonelite population.
So, in another set of experiments, Kramer put identical food boxes around the cage, with food in only one of the boxes.
In experimenting with artificial suns, Kramer made another interesting discovery.
In other words, they were able to compensate for the Sun's movement.
Furthermore, one sensory ability may back up another.
The hypothesis that begging calls have evolved properties that reduce their potential for attracting predators yields a prediction: baby birds of species that experience high rates of nest predation should produce softer begging signals of higher frequency than nestlings of other species less often victimized by nest predators.
One possibility is that a noisy baby bird provides accurate signals of its real hunger and good health, making it worthwhile for the listening parent to give it food in a nest where several other offspring are usually available to be fed.
Indeed, if you take baby tree swallows out of a nest for an hour feeding half the set and starving the other half, when the birds are replaced in the nest, the starved youngsters beg more loudly than the fed birds, and the parent birds feed the active beggars more than those who beg less vigorously.
The answer lies apparently not in the increased energy costs of exaggerated begging  such energy costs are small relative to the potential gain in calories  but rather in the damage that any successful cheater would do to its siblings, which share genes with one another.
Therefore, a begging nestling that secures food at the expense of its siblings might actually leave behind fewer copies of its genes overall than it might otherwise.
Cave art furnishes other types of evidence of this phenomenon.
Clues to right-handedness can also be found by other methods.
Similar observations have been made on other Neanderthal skeletons such as La Ferrassie I and Neanderthal itself.
Fractures and other cut marks are another source of evidence.
The high costs of converting to sound and the early limitations of sound technology were among the factors that suppressed innovations or retarded advancement in these other areas.
In Europe it took a little longer, mainly because there were more small producers for whom the costs of sound were prohibitive, and in other parts of the world problems with rights or access to equipment delayed the shift to sound production for a few more years (though cinemas in major cities may have been wired in order to play foreign sound films).
The filling of the Ataturk and other dams in Turkey has drastically reduced flows in the Euphrates, with potentially serious consequences for Syria and Iraq.
Water does not remain immobile in an aquifer but can seep out at springs or leak into other aquifers.
Life places us in a complex web of relationships with other people.
Expressive ties are social links formed when we emotionally invest ourselves in and commit ourselves to other people.
Instrumental ties are social links formed when we cooperate with other people to achieve some goal.
More often, we simply cooperate with others to reach some end without endowing the relationship with any larger significance.
A primary group involves two or more people who enjoy a direct, intimate, cohesive relationship with one another.
Second, face-to-face contact allows us to size up others.
Seeing and talking with one another in close physical proximity makes possible a subtle exchange of ideas and feelings.
For instance, some social groups employ shunning (a person can remain in the community, but others are forbidden to interact with the person) as a device to bring into line individuals whose behavior goes beyond that allowed by the particular group.
Even a fifteen-minute burst of light in otherwise sustained darkness can reset an animal's circadian rhythm.
Host selling involves blending advertisements with regular programming in a way that makes it difficult to distinguish one from the other.
But rainfall in the Maya homeland is unpredictably variable between years; some recent years have had three or four times more rain than other years.
But the inhabitants of Tikal and other cities dependent on reservoirs for drinking water would still have been in deep trouble if 18 months passed without rain in a prolonged drought.
All else being equal, this means they must exploit larger areas of land than do agriculturalists to secure the same amount of food, clothing, and other necessities.
It swims farther into the cold of the northern and southern oceans than any other sea turtle, and it deals with the chilly waters in a way unique among reptiles.
Maintaining a high body temperature through sheer bulk is called gigantothermy.
It apparently works, in a smaller way, for some other sea turtles.
Large loggerhead and green turtles can maintain their body temperature at a degree or two above that of the surrounding water, and gigantothermy is probably the way they do it.
Gigantothermy, though, would not be enough to keep a leatherback warm in cold northern waters.
Leatherbacks reach their immense size in a much shorter time than it takes other sea turtles to grow.
There was another, even larger, mass extinction at the end of the Permian period (around 250 million years ago).
The Permian event has attracted much less attention than other mass extinctions because mostly unfamiliar species perished at that time.
Some of the proposed mechanisms required a very brief period during which all extinctions suddenly took place; other mechanisms would be more likely to have taken place more gradually, over an extended period, or at different times on different continents.
The possibility that mass extinctions may recur periodically has given rise to such hypotheses as that of a companion star with a long-period orbit deflecting other bodies from their normal orbits, making some of them fall to Earth as meteors and causing widespread devastation upon impact.
In contrast, should another ice age occur, sea level would drop drastically.
In the much more distant past, other ice ages have occurred.
This has been so since ancient times, partly due to the geology of the area, which is mostly limestone and sandstone, with few deposits of metallic ore and other useful materials.
In the multiplicity of small-scale local egalitarian or quasi-egalitarian organizations for fellowship, worship, and production that flourished in this laissez-faire environment, individuals could interact with one another within a community of harmony and ideological equality, following their own popularly elected leaders and governing themselves by shared consensus while minimizing distinctions of wealth and power.
And, like the pastoralists, Middle Eastern merchants and artisans unhappy with their environment could simply pack up and leave for greener pastures  an act of self-assertion wholly impossible in most other civilizations throughout history.
Mendeleyev went further than Meyer in another respect: he predicted the properties of six elements yet to be discovered.
Together with William Ramsay, Rayleigh isolated the gas (separating it from other substances into its pure state) and named it argon.
Rayleigh and Ramsay postulated the existence of a new group of elements, and in 1898 other members of the series (neon, krypton, and xenon) were isolated.
The Jovian planets, on the other hand, contain a large percentage of the gases hydrogen and helium, with varying amounts of ices: mostly water, ammonia, and methane ices.
On the other hand, a comparatively warm body with a small surface gravity, like Earth's moon, is unable to hold even the heaviest gas and thus lacks an atmosphere.
A maritime code known as the Consulate of the Sea, which originated in the western Mediterranean region in the fourteenth century, won acceptance by a majority of sea goers as the normative code for maritime conduct; it defined such matters as the authority of a ship's officers, protocols of command, pay structures, the rights of sailors, and the rules of engagement when ships met one another on the sea-lanes.
A color or pattern that is relatively indistinct in one kind of light may be quite conspicuous in another.
They also compete with each other for the best spot of sunlight.
Less colorful birds and animals that inhabit the rain forest tend to rely on other forms of signaling other than the visual, particularly over long distances.
In densely wooded environments, sound is the best means of communication over distance because in comparison with light, it travels with little impediment from trees and other vegetation.
A symbiotic relationship is an interaction between two or more species in which one species lives in or on another species.
In contrast to parasitism, in commensalism, one partner benefits without significantly affecting the other.
Commensal associations sometimes involve one species' obtaining food that is inadvertently exposed by another.
In the first case, the plants provide the bacteria with carbohydrates and other organic compounds, and the bacteria have enzymes that act as catalysts that eventually add nitrogen to the soil, enriching it.
Another example of mutualism would be the bull's horn acacia tree, which grows in Central and South America.
They sting other insects and large herbivores (animals that eat only plants) and even clip surrounding vegetation that grows near the tree.
In 1857, in return for a payment of 63 million kronor from other commercial nations, Denmark abolished the Sound toll dues, the fees it had collected since 1497 for the use of the Sound.
This, along with other policy shifts toward free trade, resulted in a significant increase in traffic through the Sound and in the port of Copenhagen.
Another flaw of the tiredness theory is that yawning does not raise alertness or physiological activity, as the theory would predict.
Another experiment demonstrated that physical exercise, which was sufficiently vigorous to double the rate of breathing, had no effect on the frequency of yawning.
The lungs of a fetus secrete a liquid that mixes with its mother's amniotic fluid.
Its large population needed food and other supplies.
When not campaigning, soldiers needed to be occupied; otherwise they represented a potentially dangerous source of friction and disloyalty.
Newly raised regiments were normally transferred to another province from whence it was unlikely that individual recruits would ever return.
Clements and other early ecologists saw almost lawlike regularity in the order of succession, but that has not been substantiated.
Succession is influenced by many factors: the nature of the soil, exposure to sun and wind, regularity of precipitation, chance colonizations, and many other random processes.
The opposition to the Clementsian concept of plant ecology was initiated by Herbert Gleason, soon joined by various other ecologists.
With "climax," "biome," "superorganism," and various other technical terms for the association of animals and plants at a given locality being criticized, the term "ecosystem" was more and more widely adopted for the whole system of associated organisms together with the physical factors of their environment.
In the middle of the nineteenth century, Louis Agassiz, one of the first scientists to study glaciers, immigrated to the United States from Switzerland and became a professor at Harvard University, where he continued his studies in geology and other sciences.
Eventually, Agassiz and others convinced geologists and the general public that a great continental glaciation had extended the polar ice caps far into regions that now enjoy temperate climates.
Isotopic analysis of shells allowed geologists to measure another glacial effect.
In addition, there were other immigrants who migrated west in search of new homes, material success, and better lives.
Two other developments presaged the end of the era of turnpikes and started a transportation revolution that resulted in increased regional specialization and the growth of a national market economy.
First came the steamboat; although flatboats and keelboats continued to be important until the 1850  s steamboats eventually superseded all other craft in the carrying of passengers and freight.
These people exploited the landscape intensively, foraging on hill slopes for wild cereal grasses and nuts, while hunting gazelle and other game on grassy lowlands and in river valleys.
Then, about 7000 B.C., within the space of a few generations, they switched abruptly to herding domesticated goats and sheep and to growing einkorn, pulses, and other cereal grasses.
Many complex factors led to the adoption of the new economies, not only at Abu Hureyra, but at many other locations such as 'Ain Ghazal, also in Syria, where goat toe bones showing the telltale marks of abrasion caused by foot tethering (binding) testify to early herding of domestic stock.
Attack by scavengers and bacteria, chemical decay, and destruction by erosion and other geologic agencies make the odds against preservation very high.
Many other processes may alter the shell of a clam or snail and enhance its chances for preservation.
Another type of fossilization, known as carbonization, occurs when soft tissues are preserved as thin films of carbon.
Insects and even small invertebrates have been found preserved in the hardened resins of conifers and certain other trees.
Geothermal energy becomes available in a practical form when underground heat is transferred by water that is heated as it passes through a subsurface region of hot rocks (a heat reservoir) that may be hundreds or thousands of feet deep.
    By far the most abundant form of geothermal energy occurs at the relatively low temperatures of 80   to 180   centigrade.
Reykjavik, the capital of Iceland, is entirely heated by geothermal energy derived from volcanic heat.
Geothermal reservoirs with temperatures above 180   centigrade are useful for generating electricity.
By the late 1990s some 70 geothermal electric-generating plants were in operation in California, Utah, Nevada, and Hawaii, generating enough power to supply about a million people.
Eighteen countries now generate electricity using geothermal heat.
Like most other energy sources, geothermal energy presents some environmental problems.
In addition, water heated geothermally can contain salts and toxic materials dissolved from the hot rock.
The contribution of geothermal energy to the world's energy future is difficult to estimate.
Geothermal energy is in a sense not renewable, because in most cases the heat would be drawn out of a reservoir much more rapidly than it would be replaced by the very slow geological processes by which heat flows through solid rock into a heat reservoir.
Although the potential is enormous, it is likely that in the near future geothermal energy can make important local contributions only where the resource is close to the user and the economics are favorable, as they are in California, New Zealand, and Iceland.
Geothermal energy probably will not make large-scale contributions to the world energy budget until well into the twenty-first century, if ever.
The fact that some societies domesticated animals and plants, discovered the use of metal tools, became literate, and developed a state should not make us forget that others developed pastoralism or horticulture (vegetable gardening) but remained illiterate and at low levels of productivity; a few entered the modern period as hunting and gathering societies.
It is anthropologically important to inquire into the conditions that made some societies adopt agriculture while others remained hunter-gatherers or horticulturalists.
Whether Mithen's explanation is satisfactory is open to contention, and some authors have recently emphasized the importance of other factors.
Another suggestion is that before children can talk about past events in their lives, they need to have a reasonable understanding of the self as a psychological entity.
Furthermore, other studies show that Caucasian American mother-child pairs talk about past events three times more often than do Korean mother-child pairs.
A final suggestion is that children must begin to develop a "theory of mind"  an awareness of the concept of mental states (feelings, desires, beliefs, and thoughts), their own and those of others  before they can talk about their own past memories.
It may be that the developments just described are intertwined with and influence one another.
It is the dominant native species of the lower salt marshes along these coasts, where it grows in the intertidal zone (the area covered by water some parts of the day and exposed others).
Another adaptive advantage is Spartina  s ability to use carbon dioxide more efficiently than most other plants.
Efforts to control Spartina outside its natural environment have included burning, flooding, shading plants with black canvas or plastic, smothering the plants with dredged materials or clay, applying herbicide, and mowing repeatedly.
This "negative," as Talbot called it, could then be used to print multiple positive images on another piece of treated paper.
Two other factors contribute to the higher overall temperature in cities.
On the other hand, air turbulence increases because of the effect of skyscrapers on airflow.
Importing the grain, which would have been expensive and time consuming for the Dutch to have produced themselves, kept the price of grain low and thus stimulated individual demand for other foodstuffs and consumer goods.
Then exchanges with the atmosphere are calculated by finding the difference between the gains from rain, as measured (rather roughly) by rain gauges, and the losses by evaporation, measured with models that correct for the other sources of water loss.
Conversely, a pond with a stream flowing in one end and out the other, which dries up when the stream dries up, is clearly surface water dominated.
However, there are many other changes that affect respiration when asleep.
Abandoning small extended-family households to move into these large pueblos with dozens if not hundreds of other people was probably traumatic.
And besides the awkwardness of having to share walls with neighbors, living in aggregated pueblos introduced other problems.
Competition for good farmland may also have prompted people to bond together to assert rights over the best fields.Another important push was the onset of the Little Ice Age, a climatic phenomenon that led to cooler temperatures in the Northern Hemisphere.
As the Little Ice Age progressed, farmers probably moved their fields to lower elevations, infringing on the lands of other farmers and pushing people together, thus contributing to the aggregations.
In the face of all these pushes, people in the Mesa Verde area had yet another reason to move into communal villages: the need for greater cooperation.
Scholars believe that this cooperation allowed people to contend with a patchy environment in which precipitation and other resources varied across the landscape: if you produce a lot of food one year, you might trade it for pottery made by a distant ally who is having difficulty with crops  and the next year, the flow of goods might go in the opposite direction.
All four show distinctive lava channels and other flow features similar to those found on shield volcanoes on Earth.
Another prominent feature of Mars's surface is cratering.
By the seventeenth century, however, other European powers had taken over, as the Italian cities lost much of their economic might. 
First, Venic's intermediary functions in the Adriatic Sea, where it had dominated the business of shipping for other parties, were lost to direct trading.
In addition, other lines of evidence support the hypothesis that land plants evolved from ancestral green algae used the same type of chlorophyll and accessory pigments in photosynthesis as do land plants.
The developments in the iron industry were in part a response to the demand for more machines and the ever-widening use of higher-quality iron in other industries.
When the work was completed, many moved to other construction jobs or to factory work in cities and towns, where they became part of an expanding working class.
Some areas, because of their soil texture, topographical position, or distance from rivers or groundwater, have virtually no water available to plants, whereas others do.
Another way of countering drought is to have a limited amount of mass above ground and to have extensive root networks below ground.
Another class of desert plant is the phreatophyte.
Seasonal migration is another form of escape, especially for large mammals or birds.
Uruk, for instance, had two patron gods  Anu, the god of the sky and sovereign of all other gods, and Inanna, a goddess of love and war  and there were others, patrons of different cities.
Whenever a word including a syllable in which the sound   sag   was to be written, the sign for   sag" could be used to express that syllable with the remaining syllables of the word expressed by other signs.)
But Uruk  s dominant size in the entire region, far surpassing that of other settlements, indicates that it was a regional center and a true city.
Some plates carry islands or continents, others form the seafloor.
The plates have edges that are spreading ridges (where two plates are moving apart and new seafloor is being created), subduction zones (where two plates collide and one plunges beneath the other),or transform faults(where two plates neither converge nor diverge but merely move past one another).It is at the boundaries between plates that most of Earth  s volcanism and earthquake activity occur.
Like many other island groups, they form a chain.
Although this idea was not immediately accepted, the dating of lavas in the Hawaii (and other) chains showed that their ages increase away from the presently active volcano, just as Daly had suggested.
In general, the moose population is controlled by food availability, disease, and other factors rather than by wolves.
Without predators, the species that is the best competitor for food, shelter, nesting sites, and other environmental resources tends to dominate and exclude the species with which it competes.
This opens up space for many other organisms.
The ability of water, or other fluids, to flow through the interconnected pore spaces in rocks is termed permeability.
In particularly wet years, short stretches of an otherwise dry stream-bed may have flowing water because the water table rises to intersect the land surface.
Instead of following the cattle on their annual migrations, the hunters began to prevent the herd from moving from one spot to another.
On the other hand, rainfall increased in the interior of western Africa, and the northern limit of the tsetse fly, an insect fatal to cattle, moved south.
By this time, the Saharan people were probably using domestic crops, experimenting with such summer rainfall crops as sorghum and millet as they moved out of areas where they could grow wheat, barley, and other Mediterranean crops.
When completed, the buck rub is an obvious visual signal to us and presumably to other deer in the area.
A decade later another study reported that adult male white-tailed deer exhibited forehead rubbing just before and during the rut.
Forehead rubbing by male deer on buck rubs presumably sends a great deal of information to other members of the same species.
For instance, as we all know, dogs recognize each other via smell.
The information conveyed by the olfactory signals on a buck rub make it the social equivalent of some auditory signals in other deer species, such as trumpeting by bull elk.
Another visual signal produced by white-tailed deer is termed a buck scrape.
North and South American species migrating across the Isthmus now came into competition with each other.
The problem is that competition ordinarily cannot be observed directly but must be inferred from the spread or increase of one species and the concurrent reduction or disappearance of another species.
In any case, in animals it consists of leaping, running, climbing, throwing, wrestling, and other movements, either alone, with objects, or with other animals.
One of the problems is providing a clear definition of play is that it involves the same behaviors that take place in other circumstances---dominance, predation, competition, and real fighting.
Another potential cost of this activity is greater exposure to predators since play is attention-getting behavior.
One group developed in an   enriched   environment, which allowed the rats to interact with other rats, play with toys, and receive maze training.
The other group lived in an   impoverished   environment in individual cages in a dimly lit room with litter stimulation.
There is a danger, of course, that play may be misinterpreted or not recognized as play by others, potentially leading to aggression.
If evolution had been a continuous, gradual process, one might expect that almost every fossil specimen would be slightly different from every other. 
Most researchers expect to find that both modes of transition from one species to another are at work in evolution.
They were thus the pioneers of mechanical engineering and served as examples and teachers to other branches of engineering.
The clock provided the punctuation marks for group activity, while enabling individuals to order their own work (and that of others) so as to enhance productivity.
One moves from the task-oriented time consciousness of the peasant (working one job after another, as time and light permit) and the time-filling busyness of the domestic servant (who always hand something to do) to an effort to maximize product per unit of time. 
Physical separation between subpopulations promotes the formation of new species because once the members of one subpopulation can no longer mate with members of another subpopulation, they cannot exchange variant genes that arise in one of the subpopulations.
In general, the subpopulations of most species are separated from each other by some measurable distance.
For example, during past ice ages, glaciers advanced down through North America and Europe and gradually cut off parts of populations from one another.
In other groups, however, genetic divergences had not proceeded so far, and the descendants could still interbreed   for them, reproductive isolation was not completed, and so speciation had not occurred. 
This division set the stage for allopatric speciation among populations of fishes and other marine species. 
In the 1980s, John graves studied two populations of closely related fishes, one population from the Atlantic side of isthmus, the other from the Pacific side.
Second, it appears that closely related populations of fishes on both sides of the isthmus are starting to genetically diverge from each other.
Preschools---educational programs for children under the age of five---differ significantly from one country to another according to the views that different societies hold regarding the purpose of early childhood education.
On the other hand, it is clear that Head Start is meeting its goal of getting preschoolers read for school.
In addition, results from other types of preschool readiness programs indicate that those who participate and graduate are less likely to repeat grades, and they are more likely to complete school than readiness program, for every dollar spent on the program, taxpayers saved seven dollars by the time the graduates reached the age of 27. 
In these areas, rainfall per month exceeds that in the above definition, so other factors must contribute to savanna formation. 
Some savannas occur on wet, waterlogged soils; others on dry, sandy, well-drained soils.
When burning occurs, it prevents competition among plant species from progressing to the point where some species exclude others, reducing the overall diversity of the ecosystem.
But in experimental areas protected from fire, a few perennial grass species eventually come to dominate, outcompeting all others.
Evidence from other studies suggests that exclusion of fire results in markedly decreased plant-species richness, often with an increase in tree density.
Success in colonization depends to a great extent on there being a site available for colonization---a safe site where disturbance by fire or by cutting down of trees has either removed competing species or reduced levels of competition and other negative interactions to a level at which the invading species can become established.
Such species generally grow rapidly and quickly dominate new sites, excluding other species with lower invasion and growth rates.
More economic variation took shape in rural villages, as some grew prosperous from farming while others did not.
Hubbell and Johnson observed that some species of stingless bees are highly aggressive to members of their species from other colonies, while other species are not.
All four species with regular nest distributions were highly aggressive to bees from other colonies of their own species.
Aggressive species apparently mark prospective nest sites with pheromones, chemical substances secreted by some animals for communication with other members of their species.
The pheromone secreted by these stingless bees attracts and aggregates members of their colony to the prospective nest site; however, it also attracts workers from other nests.
The workers from the two colonies faced off in two swarms and displayed and fought with each other.
In the displays, pairs of bees faced each other, slowly flew vertically to a height of about three meters, and then grappled each other to the ground.
When the two bees hit the ground, they separated, faced off, and performed another aerial display.
The first farmers, who may have lived as long as 10,000 years ago, undoubtedly used simple techniques and still relied primarily on other forms of food production, such as hunting, foraging, or pastoralism.
In time, the   big men   become formal symbols of authority and pass on that authority to others within their own family.
While some of these urban centers were identified with a particular economic function, such as proximity to gold or iron deposits or a strategic location on a major trade route, others served primarily as administrative centers or the site of temples for the official cult or other ritual observances.
Some people became artisans or merchants, while others became warriors, scholars, or priests.
In other instances, such as the Indus River Valley, the cities lacked a royal precinct and the ostentatious palaces that marked their contemporaries elsewhere.
Chicago became the region  s hub, linking the farms of the upper Midwest to New York and other eastern cities by more than 2,000 miles of track in 1855.
This time was also marked by changes in many other types of organisms.
Among plants, the K-T boundary saw a sharp but brief rise in the abundance of primitive vascular plants such as ferns, club mosses, horsetails, and conifers and other gymnosperms.
For many years scientists assumed that a cooling of the climate was responsible, with dinosaurs being particularly vulnerable because, like modern reptiles, they were ectothermic (dependent on environmental heat, or cold-blooded).
It is now widely believed that at least some species of dinosaurs had a metabolic rate high enough for them to be endotherms (animals that maintain a relatively consistent body temperature by generating heat internally).
Nevertheless, climatic explanations for the K-T extinction are not really challenged by the ideas that dinosaurs may have been endothermic, because even endotherms can be affected by a significant change in the climate.
In other words, a series of events arising from a single cataclysmic event caused the massive extinctions.
This in turn allowed the easy transfer of artistic ideas and motifs over great distances, from one medium to another, and in a different scale in ways that had been difficult, if not impossible, in the previous period. 
He standardized the length of alif, the first letter of the Arabic alphabet, and then determined what the size and shape of all other letters should be, based on the alif.
By 1640 most homes in London were heated with it, and it also provided heat for making beer, glass, soap, and other products.
Such power was expensive and bothersome.
The steam power plant began to replace waterpower in the cotton-spinning mills as well as other industries during the 1780s, contributing to a phenomenal rise in industrialization.
Many plants  one or more species of at least 68 different families  can secrete nectar even when they have no blossoms, because they bear extrafloral nectaries (structures that produce nectar) on stems, leaves, leaf stems, or other structures.
The extrafloral nectaries of some plants are known to attract ants and other insects, but the evolutionary history of most plants with these nectaries is unknown.
Various other techniques to estimate Earth's age fell short, and particularly noteworthy in this regard were flawed determinations of the Sun's age.
Cereals, which are easy to digest, would have supplemented and then replaced mother's milk as the primary food for older infants.
Since women are less fertile when they are breast-feeding, substituting cereals for mother  s milk would have resulted in closer spacing of births and the potential for a greater number of live births for each woman.
Another option is to stay in the same area but to shift and intensify the food quest there.
Under seasonal succession, one or more species dominate the phytoplankton for a shorter or longer period of time and then are replaced by another set of species.
This succession is different from typical terrestrial ecological succession in which various plants replace one another until finally a so-called climax community develops, which persists for many years.
Another suggested reason is the change in nutrient level over the year, with differing concentrations favoring different phytoplankton species.
Yet another explanation is that species succession is a consequence of changes in seawater brought about by the phytoplankton living in it.
But the effect of secretions by all the individuals of the dominant species can be significant both for themselves and for other species.
Some are likely toxins, such as those released by the dinoflagellates (a species of plankton) during red tides, which inhibit growth of other photosynthetic organisms.
Another class of metabolite is the vitamins.
These vitamins are produced only by another species; hence, a succession of species could occur whereby first the vitamin-producing species is present and then the vitamin-requiring species follows.
It is the bacteria, more than any other organisms, that enable rock or other parent material to undergo the gradual transformation to soil.
Tress, grass, and other large plants supply the bulk of the soil  s humus.
The minerals released as these plants decompose on the surface constitute an important nutrient source for succeeding generations of plants as well as for other soil organisms.
Among other soil-dwelling animals, the earthworm is probably the most important.
Because the survival of organisms with particular characteristics is favored over the survival of other organisms in the same species that lack these characteristics, future generations of the species are likely to include more organisms with the favorable characteristics.
The North American equivalent of this story is another moth, the swettaria form of Biston cognataria, first noticed in industrialized areas such as Chicago and New York City in the early 1900s.
While many other observers and thinkers had laid the groundwork for science, Thales ( circa 624 B.C.E-ca 547 B.C.E.
Many others had asked the same question before him, but Thales based his answer strictly on what he had observed and what he could reason out--not on imaginative stories about the gods or the supernatural.
Like most of the great Greek philosophers, Thales had an influence on others around him.
His two best-known followers, though there were undoubtedly others who attained less renown, were Anaximander and Anaximenes.
As would later happen between another teacher-student pair of philosophers, Plato and Aristotle, Anaximander disagreed with his teacher despite his respect for him.
Anaximander  s most important contributions, though, were in other areas.
Little is known about his other ideas.
With the door opened by Thales and the other early philosophers of Milestus, Greek thinkers began to speculate about the nature of the universe.
It is becoming increasingly common for conservationists to move individual animals or entire species from one site to another.
In both cases, wild individuals are captured in one location and translocated directly to another.
In a fragmented landscape where many populations and habitats are isolated from others, translocations can play an effective role in conservation strategies; they can increase the number of existing populations or increase the size, genetic diversity, and demographic balance of a small population, consequently increasing its chances of survival. 
However, against this is the potential for reinforcement translocations to spread disease from one population to another or to introduce deleterious or maladaptive genes to a population.
Additionally, translocation of predators or competitors may have negative impacts on other species, resulting in an overall loss of diversity.
On the other hand were purely utilitarian structures, such as factories and grain elevators, which employed modern materials such as steel girders and plate glass in an undisguised and unadorned manner.
Indeed, in this influential book Toward a New Architecture, the Swiss architect Le Corbusier illustrated his text with photographs of American factories and grain storage silos, as well as ships, airplanes, and other industrial objects.
Steel construction, on the other hand, can support a building of 50 or 100 stories without difficulty.
Another issue was fire safety.
By the mid-1800s, these discoveries led to the cell theory, which states that all living things are composed of cells and that all cells come from other cells. 
The transmission electron microscope, on the other hands, is used to study the details of internal cell structure.
Although raccoons are native only to the Western Hemisphere, they have been successfully transplanted to other parts of the globe.
Within the United States, they are commonly taken from one area to another, both legally and illegally, to restock hunting areas and, presumably, because people simply want them to be part of their local fauna.
They have also expanded into many areas lacking any agriculture other than grazing and into places without forests or permanent streams.
In such areas, their arboreal habits and the presence of hollow den trees should have offered some protection from wolves and other large predators.
In addition, when glyphosate is used to control weeds, other, more persistent herbicides do not need to be applied.
Another unanswered question is whether herbicide-resistant genes will move into the populations of weeds.
Planting a glyphosate-resistant crop commits a farmer to using that herbicide for the reason, probably to the exclusion of all other herbicides and other weed-control practices.
Later, Babylonian scribes recorded the laws and kept other kinds of records.
One tablet records the speed of the Moon over 248 days; another documents an early sighting of Halley  s Cornet, form September 22 to September 28, 164 B.C.E.
This, they thought, was language fit for the gods, which explains why it was carved on walls of pyramids and other religious structures.
Vegetation was considerably altered by the Maori occupation of New Zealand, a change not easily explained by climate variation or other possible factors.
Because major habitat destruction seems to have occurred after moa populations already were depleted, and because some habitat that could have sheltered moa populations remained, it would seem that other factors were also at work in the extinction of these birds.
The story of moa species and their demise raises ecological issues on the vulnerability of species to human-caused changes- including altered vegetative cover of the landscape, change in the physical environment, and modification of the flora and fauna of a region by eliminating some species and introducing others.
Another factor is that the United States Forest Service in the first decade of the 1900s adopted the policy of fire suppression (attempting to put out forest fires) for the obvious reason that it did not want valuable timber to go up in smoke, or people  s homes and lives to be threatened.
The problems that were faced and solved in Athens were the sharing of political power between the established aristocracy and the emerging other classes, and the adjustment of aristocratic ways of life to the ways of life of the new polls.
Entering the polls age, Athens had the traditional institutions of other Greek protodemocratic states: an assembly of adult males, an aristocratic council, and annually elected officials.
This wide-scale participation by the citizenry in the government distinguished the democratic form of the Athenian polls from other, less liberal forms.
By any measure other than that of the aristocrats  who had been upstaged by the supposedly inferior "people," the Athenian democracy was a stunning success.
Although area may contribute to biodiversity, it is certainly not the whole story; otherwise, large landmasses would always be richer in species.
The other tissues are protected because they contain the frost-protective agent  s glycerin or glucose.
The principal elements in behavioral thermoregulation are basking (heliothermy), heat exchange with substrates such as rock or earth (thigmothermy)  and diurnal and annual avoidance behaviors, which include moving to shelter during the day for cooling and hibernating or estivating (reducing activity during cold or hot weather, respectively).
Hefiothermy is especially common among frogs and toads: it allows them to increase their body temperature by more than 10*C. The Andean toad Bufo spinulosus exposes itself immediately after sunrise on moist ground and attains its preferred body temperature by this means, long before either ground or air is correspondingly warmed.
Thigmothermy is a behavior present in most amphibians, although pressing against the ground serves a dual purpose: heat absorption by conductivity and water absorption through the skin.
The effect of thigmothermy is especially evident in the Andean toad during rainfall its body temperature corresponds to the temperature of the warm earth and not to the much cooler air temperature.
In many respects, such as education, occupation, and leisure activities, their life is like that of other groups that contribute to the diverse social fabric of North American culture in the twenty-first century.
All these could be obtained from the nearby highlands, from the Valley of Mexico, and from other regions, if the necessary trading networks came into being.
In time, this organization became a state, and knowledge of its functioning was exportable, as were pottery, tropical bird feathers, specialized stone materials, and other local commodities.
Biologist Ernst Mayr defined a species as "an actually or potentially interbreeding population that does not interbreed with other such populations when there is opportunity to do so."
A key event in the origin of many species is the separation of a population with its gene pool (all of the genes in a population at any one time) from other populations of the same species, thereby preventing population interbreeding.
Each island was bom from underwater volcanoes and was gradually covered by organisms derived from strays that rode the ocean currents and winds from other islands and continents.
Organisms can also be carried to islands by other organisms, such as sea birds that travel long distances with seeds clinging to their feathers.
Ganymede, another of Jupiter's satellites and the largest in our solar system, is also cratered, but less so than Callisto.
Alexander the Great took his Greek armies to the east and in only a few years completed his creation of an empire out of much of southwest Asia In the new empire, barriers to trade and the movement of peoples were removed; markets were put in touch with one another.
felt that the ideal city-state should have about 5,000 citizens, because to the Greeks it was important that everyone in the community should know each other.
Knowing how much oil has been found in an intensively drilled area, such as eastern Texas, experts make estimates of probable volumes in other regions where rock types and structures are similar to those in eastern Texas.
However, in other years the Southern Oscillation, for unknown reasons, swings in the opposite direction, dramatically changing the usual conditions described above, with pressure increasing in the western.
Another impetus may have been new sources of food.
The edges of ponds and streams surely had scattered dead fish and other water-dwelling creatures.
In addition, plants had emerged into terrestrial habitats in areas near streams and ponds, and crabs and other arthropods were also members of this earliest terrestrial community.
The room shown in it closely resembles the room in other Vermeer paintings, with lighting coming from a window on the left, the same roof beams, and similar floor tiles, suggesting that the room was fitted with a camera obscura on the side in the foreground.
In contrast to other productivity in the ocean, which is confined to various species of algae and bacteria dependent on nutrient concentrations in the water column, seagrasses are rooted plants that absorb nutrients from the sediment or substrate.
They are, therefore, capable of recycling nutrients into the ecosystem that would otherwise be trapped in the bottom and rendered unavailable.
Still, extreme temperatures, in combination with other factors, may have dramatic detrimental effects.
Investigations of the plants found grasses, sedges, mosses, and many other varieties in a nearly continuous cover, as was predicted by Guthrie.
It is like trying to get a letter to a friend at the other end of the village by climbing onto the roof and throwing an armful of letters into the air and hoping that one will end up in the friend's garden.
By contrast, in the tropics, where each tree species has few, widely scattered individuals, the chance of wind blowing pollen to another individual is sufficiently slim that animals are a safer bet as transporters of pollen.
Since wind-pollinated flowers have no need to attract insects or other animals, they have dispensed with bright petals, nectar, and scent.
Another solution for such animals is to forage in particular layers of water where the particles may be more concentrated.
Another consequence of the limited availability of prey is that many animals have developed ways of coping with much larger food particles, relative to their own body size, than the equivalent shallower species can process.
Fire, for example, which is death to papyrus paper or other writing materials such as leather and wood, simply bakes it hard, thereby making it even more durable.
The literature of the Sumerians was treasured throughout the Near East, and long after Sumerian ceased to be spoken, the Babylonians and Assyrians and others kept it alive as a literary language, the way Europeans kept Latin alive after the fall of Rome.
The existence of wealth did not escape the attention of kings and other rulers.
A good illustration of this occurred after sea otters were eliminated from some Pacific kelp (seaweed) bed ecosystems: the kelp beds were practically obliterated too because in the absence of sea otter predation, sea urchin populations exploded and consumed most of the kelp and other macroalgae.
In other words, in a rich system if a species is lost, there is a good chance that other species will take over its function as prey, predator, producer, decomposer, or whatever role it played.
Furthermore, a species-rich ecosystem is more likely to have species with similar ecological functions, so that if a species is lost from an ecosystem, another species, probably a competitor, is likely to flourish and occupy its functional role.
The Minnesota grassland research has been widely accepted as strong evidence for the diversity- stability theory; however, its findings have been questioned, and similar studies on other ecosystems have not always found a positive relationship between diversity and stability.
Such pieces perhaps first came with officials for their own religious worship; others were then acquired by native leaders as diplomatic gifts or by purchase.
It was lavishly furnished with imported sculptures and other Classical objects.
Ants and the other social members of their order, certain bees and wasps, have complete metarnorphosis in four life stages; egg, larva, pupa, and adult.
He recognized that there were three major kinds: fringing reefs, barrier reefs, and atolls; and he saw that they were related to each other in a logical and gradational sequence.
Darwin s theory was that the succession from one coral reef type to another could be achieved by the upward growth of coral from a sinking platform, and that there would be a progression from a fringing reef, through the barrier reef stage until, with the disappearance through subsidence (sinking) of the central island, only a reef-enclosed lagoon or atoll would survive.
Assuming that China  s population in 1400 was about 80 million, the economist Dwight Perkins concludes that its growth to 700 million or more in the 1960s was made possible by a steady increase in the grain supply, which evidently grew five or six times between 1400 and 1800 and rose another 50 percent between 1800 and 1965.
The sweet potato, growing in sandy soil and providing more food energy per unit of land than other crops, became the main food of the poor in much of the South China rice area.
More clues exist in other parts of the skull.
Study of coprolites has indicated that the diets of some herbivorous dinosaurs were relatively diverse, while other dinosaurs appear to have been specialists, feeding on particular types of plants.
The Italians, on the other hand, had a clear typeface known as roman that became the type of the future.
Another advantage was Britain  s large population of rural, agricultural wage earners.
As well as cottage workers, who had the potential of being more mobile than peasants of some other countries.
