The water was always laden with pebbles, gravel, and sand, known as glacial outwash, that was deposited as the flow slowed down. 
The proportion of empty space in a rock is known as its porosity.
But the myths that have grown up around the rites may continue as part of the group  s oral tradition and may even come to be acted out under conditions divorced from these rites.
For example, some early societies ceased to consider certain rites essential to their well-being and abandoned them, nevertheless, they retained as parts of their oral tradition the myths that had grown up around the rites and admired them for their artistic qualities rather than for their religious usefulness. 
Extinct but already fully marine cetaceans are known from the fossil record.
The river that formed these deposits was actually not far from an ancient ocean known as the Tethys Sea.
The structure of the backbone shows, however, that Ambulocetus swam like modern whales by moving the rear portion of its body up and down, even though a fluke was missing.
In some cases the loose soil is blown completely away, leaving a stony surface.
The cultivation of crops has expanded into progressively drier regions as population densities have grown.
The increased pressures of expanding populations have led to the removal of woody plants so that many cities and towns are surrounded by large areas completely lacking in trees and shrubs.
Excess water from irrigation sinks down into the water table.
These early projection devices were used in vaudeville theaters, legitimate theaters, local town halls, makeshift storefront theaters, fairgrounds, and amusement parks to show films to a mass audience.
Structures can be analyzed in terms of how they deal with downward forces created by gravity.
Ogallala water has enabled the High Plains region to supply significant amounts of the cotton, sorghum, wheat, and corn grown in the United States.
The incentive of the farmers who wish to conserve water is reduced by their knowledge that many of their neighbors are profiting by using great amounts of water, and in the process are drawing down the entire region  s water supplies.
A more complicated system is, in general, more likely than a simple system to break down.
A fifteen-speed racing bicycle is more likely to break down than a child  s tricycle.
Deer may move from high-elevation browse areas in summer down to the lowland areas in late fall.
Even with snow on the ground, the high bushy understory is exposed; also snow and wind bring down leafy branches of cedar, hemlock, red alder, and other arboreal fodder. 
A worsening of the plight of deer was to be expected as settlers encroached on the land, logging, burning, and clearing, eventually replacing a wilderness landscape with roads, cities, towns, and factories.
The protein content of shade-grown vegetation, for example, was much lower than that for plants grown in clearings.
This theory is suggested by evidence of chips in the painted figures, perhaps made by spears thrown at the drawings.
Water or steam may be pumped down adjacent wells to help push the oil out.
Research has shown that certain minerals are required by plants for normal growth and development.
Scientists have known for some time that certain plants, called hyperaccumulators, can concentrate minerals at levels a hundredfold or greater than normal.
A survey of known hyperaccumulators identified that 75 percent of them amassed nickel, cobalt, copper, zinc, manganese, lead, and cadmium are other minerals of choice.
Only recently have investigators considered using these plants to clean up soil and waste sites that have been contaminated by toxic levels of heavy metals Can environmentally friendly approach known as phytoremediation.
These expeditions were likely driven by population growth and political dynamics on the home islands, as well as the challenge and excitement of exploring unknown waters.  
In fact, fossil beds containing soft-bodied animals have been known for many years. 
The Ediacara fossil formation, which contains the oldest known animal fossils, consists exclusively of soft-bodied forms.
For example, a well-known Burgess Shale animal called Sidneyia is a representative of a previously unknown group of arthropods (a category of animals that includes insects, spiders, mites, and crabs).
The source had long been known but not exploited.
Early in the eighteenth century, a pump had come into use in which expanding steam raised a piston in a cylinder, and atmospheric pressure brought it down again when the steam condensed inside the cylinder to form a vacuum.
In 1769 in a little town in Oxfordshire, England, a child with the very ordinary name of William Smith was born into the poor family of a village blacksmith.
Interbedded with the salt were thin layers of what appeared to be windblown silt.
Whereas Greece had grown from scores of scattered cities, Rome grew from one single organism.
Once the idea of planting diffused, Africans began to develop their own crops, such as certain varieties of rice, and they demonstrated a continued receptiveness to new imports.
With Cuicuilco eliminated as a potential rival, any one of a number of relatively modest towns might have emerged as a leading economic and political power in Central Mexico.
Moreover, recent research on obsidian tools found at Olmec sites has shown that some of the obsidian obtained by the Olmecs originated near Teotihuac  n. Teotihuac  n obsidian must have been recognized as a valuable commodity for many centuries before the great city arose.
They bear a strong resemblance to river systems on Earth, and geologists think that they are dried-up beds of long-gone rivers that once carried rainfall on Mars from the mountains down into the valleys.
Proponents point to features such as the terraced   beaches   shown in one image, which could conceivably have been left behind as a lake or ocean evaporated and the shoreline receded.
The coastal hypothesis has gained increasing support in recent years because the remains of large land animals, such as caribou and brown bears, have been found in southeastern Alaska dating between 10,000 and 12,500 years ago.
Teachers, it is thought, benefit from the practice of reflection, the conscious act of thinking deeply about and carefully examining the interactions and events within their own classrooms.
Teachers rarely have the time or opportunities to view their own or the teaching of others in an objective manner.
But only those few spores that settle down in very favorable locations can start new life; the vast majority fall on barren ground.
We need therefore to know how much the climate can vary of its own accord in order to interpret with confidence the extent to which recent changes are natural as opposed to being the result of human activities.
The exchanger would then send a bill of exchange to a colleague in Marseille, authorizing the colleague to pay the Marseille merchant in the merchant's own currency after the actual exchange of goods had taken place.
Other statues were designed to be placed within an architectural setting, for instance, in front of the monumental entrance gateways to temples known as pylons, or in pillared courts, where they would be placed against or between pillars: their frontality worked perfectly within the architectural context.
Many are made to be put in the tombs of the elite in order to serve the tomb owners in the afterlife.
Unlike formal statues that are limited to static poses of standing, sitting, and kneeling, these figures depict a wide range of actions, such as grinding grain, baking bread, producing pots, and making music, and they are shown in appropriate poses, bending and squatting as they carry out their tasks.
An individual's success in propagating his or her genes can be affected by more than just his or her own personal reproductive success.
Because close relatives have many of the same genes, animals that harm their close relatives may in effect be destroying some of their own genes.
One also has to make the assumption that hands were stenciled palm downward  a left hand stenciled palm upward might of course look as if it were a right hand.
These rivers and river systems are known as "exogenous" because their sources lie outside the arid zone.
Regularly flowing rivers and streams that originate within arid lands are known as "endogenous."
It is known, however, that the distribution of groundwater is uneven, and that much of it lies at great depths.
The water-saturated rock or sediment is known as an "aquifer".
Some deep aquifers are known as "fossil waters.
Expressive ties predominate in primary groups; we view the people as ends in themselves and valuable in their own right.
Instrumental ties predominate in secondary groups; we perceive people as means to ends rather than as ends in their own right.
A particular animal typically maintains its own characteristic cycle duration with great precision for many days.
Yet despite this synchronization of the period of the internal cycle, the animal's timer itself continues to have its own genetically built-in period close to, but different from, 24 hours.
However, research has shown that children often have difficulty understanding disclaimers: children may interpret the phrase "when part of a nutritionally balanced breakfast" to mean that the cereal is required as a necessary part of a balanced breakfast.
In low-elevation north coastal areas without sinkholes, the Maya would have been able to get down to the water table by digging wells up to 75 feet (22 meters) deep.
But much of the south lies too high above the water table for cenotes or wells to reach down to it.
The solution is to allow the flippers to cool down without drawing heat away from the rest of the turtle  s body.
Debris thrown into the atmosphere by an asteroid collision would presumably contain large amounts of iridium, and atmospheric currents would carry this material all over the globe.
Also, large blocks thrown aside by the impact would form secondary craters surrounding the main crater.
With further melting, refreezing, and increased weight from newer snowfall above, the snow reaches a granular recrystallized stage intermediate between flakes and ice known as firn.
When the ice is thick enough, usually over 30 meters, the weight of the snow and firn will cause the ice crystals toward the bottom to become plastic and to flow outward or downward from the area of snow accumulation.
One can trace such expeditions back to ancient Sumeria, the earliest known Middle Eastern civilization.
Production was generally in the hands of skilled individual artisans doing piecework under the tutelage of a master who was also the shop owner.
In the multiplicity of small-scale local egalitarian or quasi-egalitarian organizations for fellowship, worship, and production that flourished in this laissez-faire environment, individuals could interact with one another within a community of harmony and ideological equality, following their own popularly elected leaders and governing themselves by shared consensus while minimizing distinctions of wealth and power.
By the late 1860's more than 60 chemical elements had been identified, and much was known about their descriptive chemistry.
When the elements known at the time were ordered by increasing atomic mass, it was found that successive elements belonged to different chemical groups and that the order of the groups in this sequence was fixed and repeated itself at regular intervals.
In fact, subsequent work has shown that in a periodic table, elements should not be ordered strictly by atomic mass.
Ramsay then studied a gas that was present in natural gas deposits and discovered that it was helium, an element whose presence in the Sun had been noted earlier in the spectrum of sunlight but that had not previously been known on Earth.
Also, because of their relative locations, the four Jovian planets are known as the outer planets, while the terrestrial planets are known as the inner planets.
Simply stated, a gas molecule can "evaporate" from a planet if it reaches a speed known as the escape velocity.
A maritime code known as the Consulate of the Sea, which originated in the western Mediterranean region in the fourteenth century, won acceptance by a majority of sea goers as the normative code for maritime conduct; it defined such matters as the authority of a ship's officers, protocols of command, pay structures, the rights of sailors, and the rules of engagement when ships met one another on the sea-lanes.
In the varied and constantly changing light environment of the forest, an animal must be able to send visual signals to members of its own species and at the same time avoid being detected by predators.
This species, which lives in the rain forests and scrublands of the east coast of Australia, has a brown-to-black plumage with bare, bright-red skin on the head and neck and a neck collar of orange-yellow loosely hanging skin.
Each took advantage of these opportunities in its own way.
In Denmark and Sweden agricultural reforms took place gradually from the late eighteenth century through the first half of the nineteenth, resulting in a new class of peasant landowners with a definite market orientation.
The imposition of military rule also robbed local leaders of opportunities to participate in local government, so social development was stunted and the seeds of disaffection sown.
These settlements acted like small towns, becoming centers for the artisan and trading populations.
Indeed, unaltered shells of marine invertebrates are known from deposits over 100 million years old.
Although aragonite has the same composition as the more familiar mineral known as calcite, it has a different crystal form, is relatively unstable, and in time changes to the more stable calcite.
Another type of fossilization, known as carbonization, occurs when soft tissues are preserved as thin films of carbon.
The water is usually naturally occurring groundwater that seeps down along fractures in the rock; less typically, the water is artificially introduced by being pumped down from the surface.
Iceland sits on a volcanic structure known as the Mid-Atlantic Ridge.
The latter two sources are limited to those few areas where surface water seeps down through underground faults or fractures to reach deep rocks heated by the recent activity of molten rock material.
The rocks are fractured by water pumped down at very high pressures.
It would appear that the instability of the climatic conditions led populations that had originally been nomadic to settle down and develop a sedentary style of life, which led in turn to population growth and to the need to increase the amount of food available.
Many find that understanding the general nature of autobiographical memory, that is, memory for events that have occurred in one's own life, can provide some important clues to this mystery.
A third possibility is that children will not be able to tell their own "life story" until they understand something about the general form stories take, that is, the structure of narratives.
A final suggestion is that children must begin to develop a "theory of mind"  an awareness of the concept of mental states (feelings, desires, beliefs, and thoughts), their own and those of others  before they can talk about their own past memories.
Spartina alterniflora, known as cordgrass, is a deciduous, perennial flowering plant native to the Atlantic coast and the Gulf Coast of the United States.
As the seaweed and marsh grass leaves die, bacteria break down the plant material, and insects, small shrimplike organisms, fiddler crabs, and marsh snails eat the decaying plant tissue, digest it, and excrete wastes high in nutrients.
They were also afraid of it, because it seemed likely to make their own efforts unnecessary.
It also made the whole business of making and owning images democratic.
The city is an extraordinary processor of mass and energy and has its own metabolism.
Cities, then, are warmer than the surrounding rural areas, and together they produce a phenomenon known as the urban heat island.
The peasants specialized in livestock husbandry and dairy farming as well as in cultivating industrial crops and fodder crops: flax, madder, and rape were grown, as were tobacco, hops, and turnips.
And has not twentieth-century art shown that naturalism does not necessarily follow abstraction in some kind of predetermine sequence?
The slowing down of water renewal leads to a chain of further consequences; it causes dissolved chemicals to become increasingly concentrated, and this, in turn, has a marked effect on all living things in the lake.
Yet because of the physics of lying down, the stomach applies weight against the diaphragm and makes it more difficult for the diaphragm to do its job.
Given all the disadvantages of living in aggregated towns, why did people in the thirteenth century move into these closely packed quarters?
Instead, the most sensible thing would be for neighbors to combine efforts to produce as much food as possible, and thus aggregated towns were a sensible arrangement.
The surface of Mars shows a wide range of geologic features, including huge volcanoes-the largest known in the solar system-and extensive impact cratering.
As lava flows and spreads to form a shield volcano, the volcano's eventual height depends on the new mountain's ability to support its own weight.
The step from buying foreign timber to buying foreign ships was regarded as a short one, especially when complaints were heard in the latter sixteenth century that the standards and traditions of the Arsenale were running down.
Merchants complained that the privileges reserved for Venetian-built and owned ships were first extended to those Venetians who bought ships from abroad and then to foreign-built and owned vessels.
Prices of spices delivered by ship from the eastern Mediterranean came to equal those of spices transported by Paortuguese vessels, but the increase in quantity with both routes in operation drove the price far down.
DNA comparisons have shown that green algae are plants' closest living relatives.
This would not be true of red and brown algae.
Again, the good storage and cell wall molecules of red and brown algae are different.
For years historians have sought to identify crucial elements in the eighteenth-century rise in industry, technology, and economic power Known as the Industrial Revolution, and many give prominence to the problem of energy.
When the work was completed, many moved to other construction jobs or to factory work in cities and towns, where they became part of an expanding working class.
It is not unusual for the roots of some desert perennials to extend downward more than ten meters.
These have adapted to the environment by the development of long taproots that penetrate downward until they approach the assured water supply provided by groundwater.
It was here that the civilization known as Sumer emerged in its earliest form in the fifth millennium.
Once this was done and the silt carried down by the rivers was planted, the rewards were rich: four to five times what rain-fed earth would produce.
provides the earliest known example from Sumer, a roofed boxlike sledge mounted on four solid wheels.
A major development was the discovery, again about 3000 B.C.E., that if copper, which had been known in Mesopotamia since about 3500 B.C.E., was mixed with tin, a much harder metal, bronze, would result.
For some unknown reason, many were discarded, often still intact, and thousands have been found all over the Near East.
A glance at a map of the Pacific Ocean reveals that there are many islands far out at sea that are actually volcanoes  many no longer active, some overgrown with coral  that originated from activity at points in the interior of the Pacific Plate that forms the Pacific seafloor.
This phenomenon is known as   competitor exclusion.
This pore space is known as porosity and is expressed as a percentage of the total rock volume.
Water in the vadose zone drains down to the water table, leaving behind a thin coating of water on mineral grains.
Groundwater flows downhill to topographic lows.
When people today are shown a very ordinary Roman pot and, in particular, are allowed to handle it, they often comment on how modern it looks and feels, and they need to be convinced of its true age.
The existence of competition has been long known to naturalists; its effects were described by Darwin in considerable detail.
The earliest waterpower mills were probably vertical-axis mills for grinding corn, known as Norse or Greek mills, which seem to have appeared during the first or second century B.C.
Other studies have shown that greater stimulation not only affects the size of the brain but also increases the number of connections between the nerve cells.
Dogs, for example, will wag their tails, get down on their front legs, and stick their behinds in the air to indicate   what follows is just for play  .
And then the new cities and towns, squeezed by their walls, had to know and order time in order to organize collective activity and ration space.
Once known, it spread rapidly, driving out water clocks but not solar dials, which were needed to check the new machines against the timekeeper of last resort.
These early versions were rudimentary, inaccurate, and prone to breakdown. 
From the start, however, the towns and cities took equal hours as their standard, and the public clocks installed in town halls and market squares became the very symbol of a new, secular municipal authority.
Every town wanted one; conquerors seized them as especially precious spoils of war; tourists came to see and hear these machines the way they made pilgrimages to sacred relics. 
The clock provided the punctuation marks for group activity, while enabling individuals to order their own work (and that of others) so as to enhance productivity.
This route to speciation is known as allopatry (  allo-   means   different  , and   patria   means   homeland  ).
For example, during past ice ages, glaciers advanced down through North America and Europe and gradually cut off parts of populations from one another.
In the United States, the best-known program designed to promote future academic success is Head Start.
Success in colonization depends to a great extent on there being a site available for colonization---a safe site where disturbance by fire or by cutting down of trees has either removed competing species or reduced levels of competition and other negative interactions to a level at which the invading species can become established.
All four species with regular nest distributions were highly aggressive to bees from other colonies of their own species.
The advantage was that crops grown in such areas were not as dependent on rainfall and therefore produced a more reliable harvest.
In time, the   big men   become formal symbols of authority and pass on that authority to others within their own family.
In 1840 most northwestern grain was shipped south down the Mississippi River to the bustling port of New Orleans.
But low water made steamboat travel hazardous in summer, and ice shut down traffic in winter.
Native Americans had grown corn in the region for years, but never in such large fields as did later settlers who became farmers, whose surpluses were shipped east.
The best known of the five major extinction events, the one that saw the demise of the dinosaurs, is the Cretaceous-Tertiary extinction.
The mosque of Marrakech in Morocco is known as the Kutubiyya, or Booksellers   Mosque, after the adjacent market.
Eventually, six round forms of handwriting, composed of three pairs of big and little scripts known collectively as the Six Pens, became the standard repertory of every calligrapher. 
The extrafloral nectaries of some plants are known to attract ants and other insects, but the evolutionary history of most plants with these nectaries is unknown.
However, James Hutton (1726-1797), known as the founder of modern geology, was the first to have the important insight that geologic processes are cyclic in nature.
The effects of wind and water then break down the masses of uplifted rock, producing sediment that is transported by water downward to ultimately form layers in lakes, seashores, or even oceans.
In such cases, the population explosion of dinoflagellates is so great that the water becomes brownish red in color from the billions of dinoflagellate cells.
It is now known that certain phytoplankton species have requirements for certain vitamins, and that there are considerable differences among species as to requirements.
Some bacteria produce organic acids that directly attack parent material, breaking it down and releasing plant nutrients.
The bacteria that legumes host within their root nodules (small swellings on the root) change nitrogen gas from the atmosphere into nitrogen compounds that plants are able to metabolize, a process, known as nitrogen fixation, that makes the soil more fertile.
He collected hundreds of different species of animals, and he saw that they were distributed in eight different depth zones, each containing its own distinct assemblage of animal life, the way zones of elevation on the side of a mountain are populated by distinct sets of plants. 
Although the Aegean had been the birthplace of marine biology, its depths are now known to be exceptionally lacking in animal diversity.
Moreover, through no fault of his own, Forbes was not particularly successful at sampling such life as did exist at the bottom of the Aegean.
This phenomenon, an increase in the frequency of dark-colored mutants in polluted areas, is known as industrial melanism.
), the best known of the earliest Greek philosophers, made the first steps toward a new, more objective approach to finding out about the world.
His two best-known followers, though there were undoubtedly others who attained less renown, were Anaximander and Anaximenes.
Much more is known about Anaximander than about Anaximenes, probably because Anaximander, who was born sometime around 610 BCE, ambitiously attempted to write a comprehensive history of the universe.
Little is known about his other ideas.
By now, their numbers have undoubtedly grown even more, as they have continued to expand into new habitats where they were once either rare or absent, such as sandy prairies, deserts, coastal marshes, and mountains.
Genes from virtually any organism, from viruses to humans, can now be inserted into plants, creating what are known as transgenic plants.
Now used in agriculture, there are approximately 109 million acres of transgenic crops grown worldwide, 68 percent of which are in the United States.
On the negative side, opponents of transgenic crops suggest that there are many questions that need to be answered before transgenic crops are grown on a large scale.
Crop plants are sometimes grown in areas where weedy relatives also live.
We know that evolution will occur when transgenic plants grown on a large scale over a period of time.
As a result, the scribes were assigned their own goddess, Nisaba, later replaced by the god Nabu of Borsippa, whose symbol is neither weapon nor dragon but something far more fearsome, the cuneiform stick. 
They are known from a diverse array of remains including eggshells, eggs, a few mummified carcasses, vast numbers of bones, and some older fossilized bone.
The mature ponderosa trees have bark two inches thick and are relatively resistant to fire, which instead burns out the understory  the lower layer  of fire-sensitive Douglas fir seedlings that have grown up since the previous fire.
But after only a decade  s growth until the next fire, those young seedling plants are still too low for fire to spread from them into the crowns of the ponderosa pine trees.
However, loggers concentrated on removing those big, old, valuable, fire-resistant ponderosa pines, while fire suppression for decades let the understory fill up with Douglas fir saplings that would in turn become valuable when full-grown.
When a fire finally does start in a sapling-choked forest, whether due to lightning or human carelessness or (regrettably often) intentional arson, the dense, tall saplings young trees) may become a ladder that allows the fire to jump into the crowns of the trees.
The strength of the Athenian aristocracy was further weakened during the rest of the century by the rise of a type of government known as a tyranny, which is a form of interim rule by a popular strongman (not rule by a ruthless dictator as the modem use of the term suggests to us).
In a mature floodplain tropical forest in the Amazon River basin, the canopy (the uppermost layers of a forest, formed by the crowns of trees) takes on a stratified structure.
There are three dear peaks in leaf cover at heights of approximately 3,6, and 30 meters above the ground; and the very highest layer, at 50 meters, corresponds to the very tall trees that stand free of the main canopy and form an open layer of their own.
Recently it has been shown that some North American frog and toad speeds can survive up to five days with a body temperature of -6*0 with approximately one-third of their body fluids frozen.
The twenty-four known Navajo chants can be represented by up to 500 sand paintings.
Navajo women own the family flocks, control the sharing of the sheep, the carding, the spinning, and dying of the thread, and the weaving of the fabrics While the men who make faithful copies of sand paintings from the past represent the principle of stability in Navajo thought, women embody dynamism and create new designs for every weaving they make.
Over time, the rising temperatures would have leveled off, solar ultraviolet radiation having broken down atmospheric water vapor molecules into hydrogen and oxygen.
With its gene pool isolated, a separate population can follow its own evolutionary course.
The passage of wind-blown tree pollen is also not hindered by such barriers, and the seeds of many plants may be carried back and forth on animals.
The species on the Galapagos Islands today, most of which occur nowhere else, descended from organisms that floated, flew, or were blown over the sea from the South American mainland.
Later, a few individuals of this new species may have been blown by storms to a neighboring island Isolated on this second island, the second founder population could have evolved into a second new species, which could later recolonize the island from which its founding population emigrated.
Dinosaurs rapidly became extinct about 65 million years ago as part of a mass extinction known as the K-T event, because it is associated with a geological signature known as the K-T boundary, usually a thin band of sedimentation found in various parts of the world (K is the traditional abbreviation for the Cretaceous, derived from the German name Kreideieit).
This focus on explaining dinosaur extinction misses an important point: the extinction at the end of the Cretaceous was a global event that killed off organisms up and down the food chain.
The bolide struck an area of the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico known as Chicxulub, excavating a crater 15-20 kilometers deep and at least 170 kilometers in diameter.
Like our own Moon, Callisto rotates in the same period as it revolves, so it always keeps the same face toward Jupiter.
Towns and cities were established not only as garrisons (military posts) but as centers for the diffusion of Greek language, literature, and thought, particularly through libraries, as at Antioch (in modern Turkey) and the most famous of all, at Alexandria in Egypt, which would be the finest in the world for the next thousand years.
In the ocean, microscopic phytoplankton (tiny floating plants) and bacteria (simple, single-celled organisms) are the principal sources of organic matter that is trapped and buried in sediment Most of the organic matter is buried in clay that is slowly converted to a fine-grained sedimentary rock known as shale.
Sampling on the continental shelves and along the base of the continental slopes has shown that fine muds beneath the seafloor contain up to 8 percent organic matter.
Two additional kinds of evidence support the hypothesis that petroleum is a product of the decomposition of organic matter: oil possesses optical properties known only in hydrocarbons derived from organic matter, and oil contains nitrogen and certain compounds believed to originate only in living matter.
Fishers in this region have known the phenomenon for hundreds of years.
However, in other years the Southern Oscillation, for unknown reasons, swings in the opposite direction, dramatically changing the usual conditions described above, with pressure increasing in the western.
It is known that they had lungs as well as gills for breathing.
The fins were thick, fleshy, and quite sturdy, with a median axis of bone down the center.
The bones of the fins of a Devonian rhipidistian exactly match in number and position the limb bones of the earliest known tetrapods, the amphibians.
The image of the illuminated area outside the enclosure is thrown upside down as if by magic onto a surface in the darkened enclosure.
This technique was known as long ago as the fifth century B.C.
In 1558 Giovanni Battista Della Porta wrote in his twenty-volume work Magia naturalis (meaning "natural magic") instructions for adding a convex lens to improve the quality of the image thrown against a canvas or panel in the darkened area where its outlines could be traced.
Vermeer produced only about 30 known paintings, including his famous The Art of Painting.
The room shown in it closely resembles the room in other Vermeer paintings, with lighting coming from a window on the left, the same roof beams, and similar floor tiles, suggesting that the room was fitted with a camera obscura on the side in the foreground.
Although marine botanist W. A. Setchell suggested early on that temperature was critical to the growth and reproduction of eelgrass, it has since been shown that this particularly widespread seagrass grows and reproduces at temperatures between 2 and 4 degrees Celsius in the Arctic and at temperatures up to 28 degrees Celsius on the northeastern coast of the United States.
Wind is very good at moving pollen a long way; pollen can be blown for hundreds of kilometers, and only birds can get pollen anywhere near as far.
Pollen produced higher in the top branches is likely to go farther: it is windier (and gustier) and the pollen can be blown farther before hitting the ground.
Small grains may be blown farther but they are also more prone to be whisked past the waiting stigma because smaller particles tend to stay trapped in the fast-moving air that flows around the stigma.
Another consequence of the limited availability of prey is that many animals have developed ways of coping with much larger food particles, relative to their own body size, than the equivalent shallower species can process.
Very large or long teeth provide almost no room for cutting the prey into a convenient size for swallowing, the fish must gulp the prey down whole.
In the Near East they remained in use for more than two and a half millennia, and in certain areas they lasted down to the beginning of the common era until finally yielding, once and for all, to more convenient alternatives.
The Akkadians conquered the Sumerians around the middle of the third millennium B.C.E., and they took over the various cuneiform signs used for writing Sumerian and gave them sound and word values that fit their own language.
For the scribes of these non-Sumerian languages, training was doubly demanding since they had to know the values of the various cuneiform signs for Sumerian as well as for their own language.
The Hanseatic League was a mercantile association of European towns dating from 1159.
Most towns remained small.
Downing used the ratio of above-ground biomass in 1988 (after two years of drought) to that in 1986 (predrought) in 207 plots in a grassland field in the Cedar Creek Natural History Area in Minnesota as an index of ecosystem response to disruption by drought.
Such pieces perhaps first came with officials for their own religious worship; others were then acquired by native leaders as diplomatic gifts or by purchase.
A visitor from Rome would have recognized its owner as a participant in the contemporary culture of the empire, not at all provincial in taste.
Even if those from the traditional families looked down on him, they would have been unable to dismiss him as uncultured.
Pre-Roman Britain was highly localized, with people rarely traveling beyond their own region.
Architecture of this era reflected this with even the largest of the fortified towns and hill forts containing no more than clusters of medium-sized structures.
Renowned Swiss entomologist Martin Luscher described the mounds of this fungus-growing species as being as much as 16 feet tall, 16 feet in diameter at their base, and with a cement-like wall of soil mixed with termite saliva that is from 16 to 23 inches thick.
The interior consists of a large central core in which the fungus is grown, below it is   cellar   of empty space, above it is an   attic   of empty space, and within the ridges on the outer wall of the nest, there are many small tunnels that connect the cellar and the attic.
From the attic, the air passes into the tunnels in the ridges and flows back down to the cellar.
Thus air that flows down into the cellar through the ridges is relatively rich in oxygen, and has lost much of its carbon dioxide.
The 2,000 kilometer complex of reefs known as the Great Barrier Reef, which forms a gigantic natural breakwater off the northeast coast of Australia, is by far the greatest coral structure on Earth.
Its surface forms an uneven and rather rough platform around the coast, about the level of low water, and its outer edge slopes downwards into the sea.
Corn, for instance, can be grown on the dry soil and marginal hill land of North China, where it is used for food, fuel, and fodder and provides something like one-seventh of the food energy available in the area.
The duck-billed dinosaurs known as hadrosaurs are a good example of a group whose jaw joint is below the level of the tooth row, which probably helped them grind up tough, fibrous vegetation. 
The best known of these cases is the second Edmontosaurus mummy collected by the Sternbergs.
For more than a hundred years, it has been known that cities are generally warmer than surrounding rural areas.
This region of city warmth, known as the urban heat island, can influence the concentration of air pollution.
If there are major industrial areas along the outskirts, pollutants are carried into the heat of town, where they tend to concentrate.
Pollutants from urban areas may even affect the weather downwind from them.
This was known as cloth parchment.
In 1450, Gutenberg began work on his Bible, the first printed book, known as the Gutenberg.
Printing was one of those technical revolutions that developed its own momentum at extraordinary speed.
German printers had the disadvantage of working with the complex typeface that the Italians sneeringly referred to as "Gothic" and that later became known as black letter.
The Italians, on the other hand, had a clear typeface known as roman that became the type of the future.
However, since many nations and governments wanted their own presses, the trade quickly became international.
Dutch peasant farmers were known throughout Europe for their agricultural innovations, but as British markets and opportunities grew, the English quickly learned from them.
In the sixteenth century enclosures were usually used for creating sheep pastures, but by the eighteenth century new farming techniques made it advantageous for large landowners to seek enclosures in order to improve agricultural production.
