Perceiving an apparent connection between certain actions performed by the group and the result it desires, the group repeats, refines and formalizes those actions into fixed ceremonies, or rituals.
Ecologists concluded that the apparent stability of climax ecosystems depended on their complexity.
Consistent with this view, parents and children increasingly engage in discussions of past events when children are about three years old.
Horses were apparently introduced by the Hyksos invaders of Egypt (1780-1560 B.C.)
They spoke a language, proto-Bantu (  Bantu   means   the people  ), which is the parent tongue of a language of a large number of Bantu languages still spoken throughout sub-Sahara Africa.
), and it apparently had a secure market.
Apparently, the most obvious reason for teachers to work toward reflective practice is that teacher educators think it is a good thing.
To test this idea, he blocked their view of the Sun and used mirrors to change its apparent position.
Apparently, the birds were assuming that the "Sun" they saw was moving at that rate.
The studies are complicated by the fact that the data are sometimes contradictory and the mechanisms apparently change from time to time.
A classic example is noisy begging by nestling songbirds when a parent returns to the nest with food.
One possibility is that a noisy baby bird provides accurate signals of its real hunger and good health, making it worthwhile for the listening parent to give it food in a nest where several other offspring are usually available to be fed.
If this hypothesis is true, then it follows that nestlings should adjust the intensity of their signals in relation to the signals produced by their nestmates, who are competing for parental attention.
If parent birds use begging intensity to direct food to healthy offspring capable of vigorous begging, then parents should make food delivery decisions on the basis of their offsprings   calls.
Indeed, if you take baby tree swallows out of a nest for an hour feeding half the set and starving the other half, when the birds are replaced in the nest, the starved youngsters beg more loudly than the fed birds, and the parent birds feed the active beggars more than those who beg less vigorously.
As these experiments show, begging apparently provides a signal of need that parents use to make judgments about which offspring can benefit most from a feeding.
The answer lies apparently not in the increased energy costs of exaggerated begging  such energy costs are small relative to the potential gain in calories  but rather in the damage that any successful cheater would do to its siblings, which share genes with one another.
For instance, apparently normal daily periods of biological activity were maintained for about a week by the fungus Neurospora when it was intentionally isolated from all geophysical timing cues while orbiting in a space shuttle.
Consumer protection groups and parents believe that children are largely ill-equipped to recognize such techniques and that often exaggeration is used at the expense of product information.
Leatherbacks apparently do not generate internal heat the way we do, or the way birds do, as a by-product of cellular metabolism.
It apparently works, in a smaller way, for some other sea turtles.
Apparently, genotypes (the genetic make-up of an organism) in the rabbit population were selected that were better able to resist the parasite.
This process of settling in as a community over several generations, combined with local recruitment, presumably accounts for the apparent stability of the British northern frontier in the later Roman period.
It was also apparent that the glaciation occurred in the relatively recent past because the drift was soft, like freshly deposited sediment.
Knowledge about narratives arises from social interactions, particularly the storytelling that children experience from parents and the attempts parents make to talk with children about past events in their lives.
When parents talk with children about "what we did today" or "last week" or "last year," they guide the children's formation of a framework for talking about the past.
Talking with parents about the past may enhance the development of the self-concept, for example, as well as help the child understand what it means to "remember."
In this context the simplicity of a geometric motif may be more apparent than real.
Other respiratory regulating mechanisms apparently cease functioning during sleep.
In ancient Roman times, the Italian peninsula had great forest of fir preferred for warships, but scarcity was apparent as early as the early fourteenth century.
The shift to increased mechanization in cotton production is apparent in the import of raw cotton and the sale of cotton goods.
The plumes apparently originate at great depths, perhaps as deep as the boundary between the core and the mantle, and many have been active for a very long time.
The result was the extermination of a large fraction of the South American mammals, which were apparently unable to withstand the competition from invading North American species  although added predation was also an important factor.
Some groups that had descended from the same parent population were no longer reproductively compatible  they had evolved into separate species.
For instance, in a cross-country comparison of preschools in China, Japan, and the United States, researchers found that parents in the three countries view the purpose of preschools very differently.
Whereas parents in China tend to see preschools primarily as a way of giving children a good start academically, Japanese parents view them primarily as a way of giving children the opportunity to be members of a group.
In the United States, in comparison, parents regard the primary purpose of preschools as making children more independent and self-reliant, although obtaining a good academic start and having group experience are also important.
The program, which stresses parental involvement, was designed to serve the   whole child  , including children  s physical health, self-confidence, social responsibility, and social and emotional development.
Elkind argues that academic success is largely dependent upon factors out of parents   control, such as inherited abilities and a child  s rate of maturation.
A fertile, plowed field is rapidly invaded by a large variety of weeds, whereas a neighboring construction site from which the soil has been compacted or removed to expose a coarse, infertile parent material may remain virtually free of vegetation for many months or even years despite receiving the same input of seeds as the plowed field. 
Aggressive species apparently mark prospective nest sites with pheromones, chemical substances secreted by some animals for communication with other members of their species.
Bees did not appear to be injured in these fights, which were apparently ritualized.
The numerous plants and animals living in the soil release minerals from the parent material from which soil is formed, supply organic matter, aid in the translocation (movement) and aeration of the soil, and help protect the soil from erosion.
It is the bacteria, more than any other organisms, that enable rock or other parent material to undergo the gradual transformation to soil.
Some bacteria produce organic acids that directly attack parent material, breaking it down and releasing plant nutrients.
It is possible for anyone to create   ideas   about the nature and structure of the universe, for instance, and many times these ideas can be so consistent and elaborately structured, or just so apparently obvious, that they can be persuasive to many people.
An example of apparent translocation success involves the threatened Seychelles warbler.
Magnification, the increase in the apparent size of an object, is one important factor in microscopy.
In the eighteenth century, when the wolfs range included almost all of North America, raccoons apparently were abundant only in the deciduous forests of the East, Gulf Coast, and Great Lakes regions, though they also extended into the wooded bottomlands of the Midwest  s major rivers.
They may have had relatively low reproductive rates; apparently, they usually laid only one egg at a time.
The apparent decline fits the pattern expected as a consequence of the Maori  s overexploitation of moa.
There is also a large mass of material, developed below ground as root tissues, but this is less apparent Careful analysis of the aboveground material reveals that it is arranged in a series of layers, the precise number of layers varying with age and the nature of the forest The arrangement of the biological mass (biomass) of the vegetation into layered forms is termed its "structure" (as opposed to its "composition", which refers to the species of organisms forming the community).
Geographic isolation creates opportunities for new species to develop, but it does not necessarily lead to new species because speciation occurs only when the gene pool undergoes enough changes to establish reproductive barriers between the isolated population and its parent population.
Despite these adaptations, much of the pollen fails to leave the top branches, and only between 0.5 percent and 40 percent gets more than 100 meters away from the parent.
Apparently, species-rich plots were likely to contain some drought-resistant plant species that grew better in drought years, compensating for the poor growth of less-tolerant species.
