In addition to exploring the possible antecedents of theater, scholars have also theorized about the motives that led people to develop theater.
Thus, fantasy or fiction (of which drama is one form) permits people to objectify their anxieties and fears, confront them, and fulfill their hopes in fiction if not fact.
The theater, then, is one tool whereby people define and understand their world or escape from unpleasant realities.
The extreme seriousness of desertification results from the vast areas of land and the tremendous numbers of people affected, as well as from the great difficulty of reversing or even slowing the process.
What audiences came to see was the technological marvel of the movies; the lifelike reproduction of the commonplace motion of trains, of waves striking the shore, and of people walking in the street; and the magic made possible by trick photography and the manipulation of the camera.
In order for the structure to achieve the size and strength necessary to meet its purpose, architecture employs methods of support that, because they are based on physical laws, have changed little since people first discovered them  even while building materials have changed dramatically.
To keep 40 people alive that winter, they consumed approximately 150 elk and 20 deer.
Another explanation for the focus on animals might be that these people sought to improve their luck at hunting.
Thus, the paintings are consistent with the idea that the art is related to the importance of hunting in the economy of Upper Paleolithic people.
Consistent with this idea, according to the investigators, is the fact that the art of the cultural period that followed the Upper Paleolithic also seems to reflect how people got their food.
If this is true, it would mean that Upper Paleolithic people were capable of complex thought and were consciously aware of their environment.
Ever since people had begun to catalog the strata in particular outcrops, there had been the hope that these could somehow be used to calculate geological time.
Few people can remember anything that happened to them in their early years.
Most people remember only a few events  usually ones that were meaningful and distinctive, such as being hospitalized or a sibling  s birth. 
The sheer passage of time does not account for it; adults have excellent recognition of pictures of people who attended high school with them 35 years earlier.
While such repression may occur, people cannot remember ordinary events from the infant and toddler periods either.
Whether people can remember an event depends critically on the fit between the way in which they earlier encoded the information and the way in which they later attempt to retrieve it.
These peoples settled at first in scattered hunting-and-gathering bands, although in some places near lakes and rivers, people who fished, with a more secure food supply, lived in larger population concentrations.
Agriculture seems to have reached these people from the Near East, since the first domesticated crops were millets and sorghums whose origins are not African but west Asian.
The diffusion of agriculture and later of iron was accompanied by a great movement of people who may have carried these innovations.
These people probably originated in eastern Nigeria.
They spoke a language, proto-Bantu (  Bantu   means   the people  ), which is the parent tongue of a language of a large number of Bantu languages still spoken throughout sub-Sahara Africa.
Why and how these people spread out into central and southern Africa remains a mystery, but archaeologists believe that their iron weapons allowed them to conquer their hunting-gathering opponents, who still used stone implements.
At its height, between about A.D. 150 and 700, it probably had a population of more than 125,000 people and covered at least 20 square kilometers.
The hard volcanic stone was a resource that had been in great demand for many years, at least since the rise of the Olmecs (a people who flourished between 1200 and 400 B.C.
All this led to increased wealth, which in turn would attract more immigrants to Teotihuac  n. The growing power of the elite, who controlled the economy, would give them the means to physically coerce people to move to Teotihuac  n and serve as additions to the labor force.
Support is growing for the alternative theory that people using watercraft, possibly skin boats, moved southward from Beringia along the Gulf of Alaska and then southward along the Northwest coast of North America possibly as early as 16,000 years ago.
He theorized that with the use of watercraft, people gradually colonized unglaciated refuges and areas along the continental shelf exposed by the lower sea level.
The most recent geologic evidence indicates that it may have been possible for people to colonize ice-free regions along the continental shelf that were still exposed by the lower sea level between13,000 and 14,000 years ago.
Because of the barrier of ice to the east, the Pacific Ocean to the west, and populated areas to the north, there may have been a greater impetus for people to move in a southerly direction.
Populations cannot grow unless the rural economy can produce enough additional food to feed more people.
The question perplexed people for years, until, in the 1950s, a German scientist named Gustave Kramer provided some answers and, in the process, raised new questions.
We all know that many more people today are right-handed than left-handed.
Life places us in a complex web of relationships with other people.
When an association continues long enough for two people to become linked together by a relatively stable set of expectations, it is called a relationship.
Expressive ties are social links formed when we emotionally invest ourselves in and commit ourselves to other people.
Through association with people who are meaningful to us, we achieve a sense of security, love, acceptance, companionship, and personal worth.
Instrumental ties are social links formed when we cooperate with other people to achieve some goal.
A primary group involves two or more people who enjoy a direct, intimate, cohesive relationship with one another.
Expressive ties predominate in primary groups; we view the people as ends in themselves and valuable in their own right.
A secondary group entails two or more people who are involved in an impersonal relationship and have come together for a specific, practical purpose.
Instrumental ties predominate in secondary groups; we perceive people as means to ends rather than as ends in their own right.
We find it difficult to get to know people personally when they are milling about and dispersed in large groups.
Our ties with people often deepen as we interact with them across time and gradually evolve interlocking habits and interests.
To understand the ancient Mayan people who lived in the area that is today southern Mexico and Central America and the ecological difficulties they faced, one must first consider their environment, which we think of as "jungle" or "tropical rainforest."
For example, reservoirs at the Maya city of Tikal held enough water to meet the drinking water needs of about 10,000 people for a period of 18 months.
The growth of independent guilds was furthered by the fact that surplus was not a result of domestic craft production but resulted primarily from international trading; the government left working people to govern themselves, much as shepherds of tribal confederacies were left alone by their leaders.
The mercantile economy was also characterized by a peculiar moral stance that is typical of people who live by trade  an attitude that is individualistic, calculating, risk taking, and adaptive to circumstances.
Widely reported, if somewhat distrusted, accounts by figures like the famous traveler from Venice, Marco Polo, of the willingness of people in China to trade with Europeans and of the immensity of the wealth to be gained by such contact made the idea irresistible.
At the beginning of the nineteenth century, Denmark and Norway had fewer than 1 million people, while Sweden and the Netherlands had fewer than 2.5 million inhabitants.
The people of the Netherlands, with a long tradition of fisheries and mercantile shipping, had difficulty in developing good harbors suitable for steamships: eventually they did so at Rotterdam and Amsterdam, with exceptional results for transit trade with Germany and central Europe and for the processing of overseas foodstuffs and raw materials (sugar, tobacco, chocolate, grain, and eventually oil).
According to conventional theory, yawning takes place when people are bored or sleepy and serves the function of increasing alertness by reversing, through deeper breathing, the drop in blood oxygen levels that are caused by the shallow breathing that accompanies lack of sleep or boredom.
When researchers measured the heart rate, muscle tension and skin conductance of people before, during and after yawning, they did detect some changes in skin conductance following yawning, indicating a slight increase in physiological activity.
This accords with anecdotal evidence that people often yawn in situations where they are neither tired nor bored, but are preparing for impending mental and physical activity.
Some of the demand for the services and goods was no doubt fulfilled by people drawn from far afield, but some local people certainly became entwined in this new economy.
For the first time, people began to talk about ice ages.
Whereas in 1810 only a seventh of the American people lived west of the Appalachian Mountains, by 1840 more than a third lived there.
In American society, however, the class structure was less rigid; some people changed occupations easily and believed it was their duty to improve their social and economic position.
As a result, many Americans were an inveterately restless, rootless, and ambitious people.
These people exploited the landscape intensively, foraging on hill slopes for wild cereal grasses and nuts, while hunting gazelle and other game on grassy lowlands and in river valleys.
With such a favorable location, about 300 to 400 people lived in a sizable, permanent settlement.
They were no longer a series of small bands but lived in a large community with more elaborate social organization, probably grouped into clans of people of common descent.
By 8200B.C., drought conditions were so severe that the people abandoned their long-established settlement, perhaps dispersing into smaller camps.
By the late 1990s some 70 geothermal electric-generating plants were in operation in California, Utah, Nevada, and Hawaii, generating enough power to supply about a million people.
Mithen proposes the existence of four mental elements to account for the emergence of farming: (1) the ability to develop tools that could be used intensively to harvest and process plant resources; (2) the tendency to use plants and animals as the medium to acquire social prestige and power; (3) the tendency to develop "social relationships" with animals structurally similar to those developed with people  specifically, the ability to think of animals as people (anthropomorphism) and of people as animals (totemism); and (4) the tendency to manipulate plants and animals.
Most people are not able to recount memories for experiences prior to the age of three years, a phenomenon called infantile amnesia.
Portraiture, once a luxury for the privileged few, was suddenly well within the reach of many more people.
According to estimates, about 120,000 tons of imported grain fed about 600,000 people: that is about a third of the Dutch population.
In the sixteenth century, fruit and vegetables were to be found only in gardens belonging to wealthy people.
As the demand for agricultural produce from both consumers and industry increased, agricultural land became more valuable and people tried to work the available land more intensively and to reclaim more land from wetlands and lakes.
Ever since European first explored Australia, people have been trying to understand the ancient rock drawings and cavings created by the Aborigines, the original inhabitants of the continent.
In the Mesa Verde area of the ancient North American Southwest, living patterns changed in the thirteenth century, with large numbers of people moving into large communal dwellings called pueblos, often constructed at the edges of canyons, especially on the sides of cliffs.
Abandoning small extended-family households to move into these large pueblos with dozens if not hundreds of other people was probably traumatic.
Few of the cultural traditions and rules that today allow us to deal with dense populations existed for these people accustomed to household autonomy and the ability to move around the landscape almost at will.
For people in cliff dwellings, hauling water, wood, and food to their homes was a major chore.
Given all the disadvantages of living in aggregated towns, why did people in the thirteenth century move into these closely packed quarters?
For transitions of such suddenness, archaeologists consider either pull factors (benefits that drew families together) or push factors (some external threat or crisis that forced people to aggregate).
After several generations of population growth, people packed the landscape in densities so high that communal pueblos may have been a necessary outcome.
Around Sand Canyon, for example, populations grew from 5 -12 people per square kilometer in the tenth century to as many as 30 - 50 by the 1200s.
Some scholars expand on this idea by emphasizing a corresponding need for arable land to feed growing numbers of people: construction of small dams, reservoirs, terraces, and field houses indicates  that  farmers  were  intensifying  their  efforts  during  the  1200s. 
Competition for good farmland may also have prompted people to bond together to assert rights over the best fields.Another important push was the onset of the Little Ice Age, a climatic phenomenon that led to cooler temperatures in the Northern Hemisphere.
The environmental changes associated with this transition are not fully understood, but people living closest to the San Juan Mountains, to the northeast of Mesa Verde, were affected first.
As the Little Ice Age progressed, farmers probably moved their fields to lower elevations, infringing on the lands of other farmers and pushing people together, thus contributing to the aggregations.
In the face of all these pushes, people in the Mesa Verde area had yet another reason to move into communal villages: the need for greater cooperation.
Sharing and cooperation were almost certainly part of early Puebloan life, even for people living in largely independent single-household residences scattered across the landscape.
Scholars believe that this cooperation allowed people to contend with a patchy environment in which precipitation and other resources varied across the landscape: if you produce a lot of food one year, you might trade it for pottery made by a distant ally who is having difficulty with crops  and the next year, the flow of goods might go in the opposite direction.
Until the eighteenth century, people relied on energy derived from plants as well as animal and human muscle to provide power Increased efficiency in the use of water and wind helped with such tasks as pumping, milling, or sailing.
The vast majority of its population remained active in agriculture, even those people living within the city itself.
Certain images depict groups of people, most likely women, involved in weaving textiles, an activity we know from later third-millennium texts to have been vital in the economy and to have been centrally administered.
The people who hunted the sparse desert animals responded to drought by managing the wild resources they hunted and gathered, especially wild oxen, which had to have regular water supplies to survive.
The experiments with domestication probably occurred in many places, as people living in ever-drier environments cast around for more predictable food supplies.
The Saharan people left a remarkable record of their lives painted on the walls of caves deep in the desert.
By this time, the Saharan people were probably using domestic crops, experimenting with such summer rainfall crops as sorghum and millet as they moved out of areas where they could grow wheat, barley, and other Mediterranean crops.
When people today are shown a very ordinary Roman pot and, in particular, are allowed to handle it, they often comment on how modern it looks and feels, and they need to be convinced of its true age.
Moving water was one of the earliest energy sources to be harnessed to reduce the workload of people and animals.
In Europe, before the introduction of the mechanical clock, people told time by sun (using, for example, shadow sticks or sun dials) and water clocks.
Its public display and private possession laid the basis for temporal autonomy: people could now coordinate comings and goings without dictation from above.
Over the course of the Fifth Reign (1868---1910), the ties that bound rural people to the aristocracy and local ruling elites were greatly reduced.
Village handicrafts diminished or died out completely as people bought imported consumer goods, like cloth and tools, instead of making them themselves.
By means of their military prowess, dominant personalities, or political talents, these people gradually emerge as the leaders of that community.
Some people became artisans or merchants, while others became warriors, scholars, or priests.
Although paper was never as cheap as it has become today, it was far less expensive than parchment, and therefore more people could afford to buy books.
The increased availability of paper, particularly after 1250, encouraged people to develop systems of representation, such as architectural plans and drawings.
The steam engine of Watt and his followers was the technological advance that gave people, at least for a whild, unlimited power and allowed the invention and use of all kinds of power equipment.
Such societies likely were largely egalitarian, beyond distinctions based on age and gender: virtually all people had equivalent rights, status, and access to resources.
The impulse to produce more food to feed a growing population was satisfied in some areas by the development of more-complex subsistence strategies involving intensive labor and requiring more cooperation and greater coordination among the increasing numbers of people.
It is possible for anyone to create   ideas   about the nature and structure of the universe, for instance, and many times these ideas can be so consistent and elaborately structured, or just so apparently obvious, that they can be persuasive to many people.
One problem was getting people to the upper floors, since after five or six stories it becomes exhausting to climb stairs.
Within the United States, they are commonly taken from one area to another, both legally and illegally, to restock hunting areas and, presumably, because people simply want them to be part of their local fauna.
Another factor is that the United States Forest Service in the first decade of the 1900s adopted the policy of fire suppression (attempting to put out forest fires) for the obvious reason that it did not want valuable timber to go up in smoke, or people  s homes and lives to be threatened.
and 450 B.C., evolved what Greeks regarded as a fully-fledged democratic constitution, though the light to vote was given to fewer groups of people than is seen in modem times.
By any measure other than that of the aristocrats  who had been upstaged by the supposedly inferior "people," the Athenian democracy was a stunning success.
Never before, or since, have so many people been involved in the serious business of self-govemance.
The Navajo, a Native American people living in the southwestern United States, live in small scattered settlements.
If a number of people in the village were throwing letters off roofs, your friend would be bound to get one.
These examples, in the form of inscribed clay tablets that date to shortly before 3000 B.C.E., have been discovered among the archaeological remains of the Sumerians, a gifted people settled in southern Mesopotamia.
Even so, merchants and business people did not run medieval communities, except in central and northern Italy and in the county of Flanders.
Pre-Roman Britain was highly localized, with people rarely traveling beyond their own region.
Information on past climates is primary of relevance to archaeology because of what it tells us about the effects on the land and on the resources that people needed to survive.
The British people were also consumers; the absence of internal tariffs, such as those that existed in France or Italy or between the German states, made Britain the largest free-trade area in Europe.
At the same time, people were moving to the city, partly because of the enclosure movement; that is, the fencing of common fields and pastures in order to provide more compact, efficient privately held agricultural parcels that would produce more goods and greater profits.
It was such people who began to flock to the cities seeking employment and who found work in the factories that would transform the nation and, the worl
