As a person becomes more sophisticated, its conceptions of supernatural forces and causal relationships may change.
Thus, the recalling of an event (a hunt, battle, or other feat) is elaborated through the narrator  s pantomime and impersonation and eventually through each role being assumed by a different person.
One, set forth by Aristotle in the fourth century B.C., sees humans as naturally imitative  as taking pleasure in imitating persons, things, and actions and in seeing such imitations.
The better able the person is to reconstruct the perspective from which the material was encoded, the more likely that recall will be successful. 
The world looks very different to a person whose head is only two or three feet above the ground than to one whose head is five or six feet above it.
An individual's success in propagating his or her genes can be affected by more than just his or her own personal reproductive success.
Through association with people who are meaningful to us, we achieve a sense of security, love, acceptance, companionship, and personal worth.
A secondary group entails two or more people who are involved in an impersonal relationship and have come together for a specific, practical purpose.
We find it difficult to get to know people personally when they are milling about and dispersed in large groups.
Second, primary groups are fundamental because they provide the settings in which we meet most of our personal needs.
For instance, some social groups employ shunning (a person can remain in the community, but others are forbidden to interact with the person) as a device to bring into line individuals whose behavior goes beyond that allowed by the particular group.
As among tribespeople, personal relationships and a careful weighing of character have always been crucial in a mercantile economy with little regulation, where one's word is one's bond and where informal ties of trust cement together an international trade network.
The army also provided a mean of personal advancement for auxiliary soldiers recruited from the native peoples, as a man obtained hereditary Roman citizenship on retirement after service in an auxiliary regiment.
If the irritation is severe enough, a sleeping person will arouse, clear the airway, then resume breathing and likely return to sleep.
The clock brought order and control, both collective and personal.
By means of their military prowess, dominant personalities, or political talents, these people gradually emerge as the leaders of that community.
Indian grass, Canada wild rye, and native big bluestem all grew higher than a person.
More esoteric texts attempt to explain old Babylonian customs, such as the procedure for curing someone who is ill, which included rubbing tar and gypsum on the sick person  s door and drawing a design at the foot of the person  s bed.
Egypt gave us the tradition of the scribe not just as educated person but as artist and calligrapher.
The paintings and chants used in the ceremonies are directed by well-trained artists and singers who enlist the aid of spirits who are impersonated by masked performers.
The focus of life was the agora, the open marketplace where assemblies could be held and where issues of the day, as well as more fundamental topics such as the purpose of government or the relationship between law and freedom, could be discussed and decisions made by individuals in person.
There were getting to be too many persons to know, an easily observable community of interests was being replaced by a multiplicity of interests.
was the first person in Greece to propose a morality based on individual conscience rather than the demands of the state, and for this he was accused of not believing in the city  s gods and so corrupting the youth, and he was condemned to death.
Commercial correspondence, unnecessary when one businessperson oversaw everything and made direct bargains with buyers and sellers, multiplied.
Administrators thus used their personal contacts to put the Britons in touch with architects and masons.
