The picture of Teotihuac  n that emerges is a classic picture of positive feedback among obsidian mining and working, trade, population growth, irrigation, and religious tourism.
Their absence supports the picture of a cold, dry Mars that never experienced the extended mild period required to form lakes and oceans.
Long and often lyrical descriptions of the different types of ware exist that assist in classifying pots, although these sometimes confuse an already large and complicated picture.
To build up a better picture of fluctuations appreciably further back in time requires us to use proxy records.
The shift from silent to sound film at the end of the 1920s marks, so far, the most important transformation in motion picture history.
To be sure, their evaluation of the technical flaws in 1920s sound experiments was not so far off the mark, yet they neglected to take into account important new forces in the motion picture field that, in a sense, would not take no for an answer.
With financial assets considerably greater than those in the motion picture industry, and perhaps a wider vision of the relationships among entertainment and communications media, they revitalized research into recording sound for motion pictures.
In 1929 the United States motion picture industry released more than 300 sound films  a rough figure, since a number were silent films with music tracks, or films prepared in dual versions, to take account of the many cinemas not yet wired for sound.
Since the mid-1970s, a reasonably stable picture has formed of the organization of Australian rock art.
In order to create a sense of structure to this picture, researchers have relied on a distinction that still underlies the forms of much indigenous visual culture  a distinction between geometric and figurative elements.
An energy analyst writing in the year 1800 would have painted a very pessimistic picture of the future for waterpower.
A century later the picture was completely different: by then, the world had an electric industry, and a quarter of its generating capacity was water powered.
Hutton's concept represented a remarkable insight because it unified many individual phenomena and observations into a conceptual picture of Earth  s history.
Anaximander, observing the motions of the heavens around the polestar, was probably the first of the Greek philosophers to picture the sky as sphere completely surrounding Earth--an idea that, elaborated upon later, would prevail until the advent of the Scientific Revolution in the seventeenth century. 
The Cretaceous extinctions were a global phenomenon, and dinosaurs were just a part of a bigger picture.
