Various environmental factors may play a role.
Some scientists have proposed that the presence of increasing levels of ultraviolet light with elevation may play a role, while browsing and grazing animals like the ibex may be another contributing factor.
Previously, large audiences had viewed spectacles at the theater, where vaudeville, popular dramas, musical and minstrel shows, classical plays, lectures, and slide-and-lantern shows had been presented to several hundred spectators at a time.
A country as vast as China with so long-lasting a civilization has a complex social and visual history, within which pottery and porcelain play a major role.
Pots played an important part in some religious ceremonies.
Statues were created not for their decorative effect but to play a primary role in the cults of the gods, the king, and the dead.
Very often such statues were enclosed in rectangular shrines or wall niches whose only opening was at the front, making it natural for the statue to display frontality.
The effect is altogether lighter and freer than that achieved in stone, but because both perform the same function, formal wooden and metal statues still display frontality.
In fact, when tapes of begging tree swallows were played at an artificial swallow nest containing an egg, the egg in that   noisy   nest was taken or destroyed by predators before the egg in a nearby quiet nest in 29 of 37 trials.
David Haskell created artificial nests with clay eggs and placed them on the ground beside a tape recorder that played the begging calls of either tree-nesting or of ground-nesting warblers.
In Europe it took a little longer, mainly because there were more small producers for whom the costs of sound were prohibitive, and in other parts of the world problems with rights or access to equipment delayed the shift to sound production for a few more years (though cinemas in major cities may have been wired in order to play foreign sound films).
For example, the stronger the primary group ties of a sports team playing together, the better their record is.
Increases in the number of sucks were used as an indicator of the infant's attention to or preference for a given visual display.
In a content analysis of Canadian television, the author Stephen Kline observed that nearly all commercials for character toys featured fantasy play.
Here, the horse was already becoming the animal of prestige in many regions, though sheep, goats, and cattle could also play a vital role.
It is a monumental scientific achievement, and its development illustrates the essential interplay between observation, prediction, and testing required for scientific progress.
Other species take into account the changing conditions of light by performing their visual displays only when the light is favorable.
A male bird of paradise may put himself in the limelight by displaying his spectacular plumage in the best stage setting to attract a female.
Certain butterflies move into spots of sunlight that have penetrated to the forest floor and display by opening and closing their beautifully patterned wings in the bright spotlights.
During courtship and aggressive displays, the turkey enlarges its colored neck collar by inflating sacs in the neck region and then flings about a pendulous part of the colored signaling apparatus as it utters calls designed to attract or repel.
This impressive display is clearly visible in the light spectrum illuminating the forest floor.
The male riflebird exploits both of these modes of signaling simultaneously in his courtship display.
The ritualized visual display communicates in close quarters when a female has approached.
The complex interplay of species in symbiotic relationships highlights an important point about communities: Their structure depends on a web of diverse connections among organisms.
The question of why infantile amnesia occurs has intrigued psychologists for decades, especially in light of ample evidence that infants and young children can display impressive memory capabilities.
Historian Frederic Lane observes that after the loss of ships in battle in the late sixteenth century, the shipbuilding industry no long had the capacity to recover that it had displayed at the start of the century. 
When wolves later reached the island, naturalists widely assumed that the wolves would play a key role in controlling the moose population.
However, biologists also noted that deer sniff and lick an unfamiliar rub, which suggests that this visual mark on a small tree plays an important communication purpose in the social life of deer.
The growth of the electric-power industry was the result of a remarkable series of scientific discoveries and developments in electrotechnology during the nineteenth century, but significant changes in what we might now call hydro (water) technology also played their part.
Depending on the species, play may be primarily for social interaction, exercise, or exploration.
One of the problems is providing a clear definition of play is that it involves the same behaviors that take place in other circumstances---dominance, predation, competition, and real fighting.
Thus, whether play occurs or not depends on the intention of the animal, and intentions are not always clear from behavior alone.
Exactly why animals play is still a matter debated in the research literature, and the reasons may not be the same for every species that plays.
Determining the functions of play is difficult because the functions may be long-term, with beneficial effects not showing up until the animal  s adulthood.
Another potential cost of this activity is greater exposure to predators since play is attention-getting behavior.
The Benefits of play must outweigh the costs, or play would not have evolved, according to Darwin  s theory.
One group developed in an   enriched   environment, which allowed the rats to interact with other rats, play with toys, and receive maze training.
Thus, active play may provide necessary stimulation to the growth of synaptic connections in the brain, especially the cerebellum, which is responsible for motor functioning and movements.
Prey species, like young deer or goats, for example, typically play by performing sudden flight movements and turns, whereas predator species, such as cats, practice stalking, pouncing, and biting.
They need to learn how to be dominant and submissive because each monkey might have to play either role in the future.
Most of these things are learned in the long developmental periods that primates have, during which they engage in countless play experiences with their peers. 
There is a danger, of course, that play may be misinterpreted or not recognized as play by others, potentially leading to aggression.
This is especially true when play consists of practicing normal aggressive or predatory behaviors.
Thus, many species have evolved clear signals to delineate playfulness.
Dogs, for example, will wag their tails, get down on their front legs, and stick their behinds in the air to indicate   what follows is just for play  .
Its public display and private possession laid the basis for temporal autonomy: people could now coordinate comings and goings without dictation from above.
There is no simple or single factor that determines if a given site will be a savanna, but some factors seem to play important roles in their formation.
Variation in rates of invasion and growth plays an important role in determining patterns of succession, especially secondary succession.
The workers from the two colonies faced off in two swarms and displayed and fought with each other.
In the displays, pairs of bees faced each other, slowly flew vertically to a height of about three meters, and then grappled each other to the ground.
When the two bees hit the ground, they separated, faced off, and performed another aerial display.
Because bread played a key role in the American and European diet, wheat became the major cash crop.
Living organisms play an essential role in soil formation.
More complex forms of vegetation play several vital roles with respect to the soil.
In a fragmented landscape where many populations and habitats are isolated from others, translocations can play an effective role in conservation strategies; they can increase the number of existing populations or increase the size, genetic diversity, and demographic balance of a small population, consequently increasing its chances of survival. 
People began to realize that the United States federal government  s fire-suppression policy was contributing to those big fires and that natural fires caused by lighting had previously played an important role in maintaining forest structure.
It could be, too, that warfare became a competitive response to population growth and to the increasing scarcity of prime agricultural land, and that it played an important role in the emergence of the Mayan states.
Third, Greek philosophy was opened up to the philosophy and religion of the East At the peak of the Greek city-state, religion played an important part.
In other words, in a rich system if a species is lost, there is a good chance that other species will take over its function as prey, predator, producer, decomposer, or whatever role it played.
