Conditions that promote fossilization of soft-bodied animals include very rapid covering by sediments that create an environment that discourages decomposition.
Furthermore, the gypsum was found to possess peculiarities of composition and structure that suggested it had formed on desert flats.
Paleontologists have argued for a long time that the demise of the dinosaurs was caused by climatic alterations associated with slow changes in the positions of continents and seas resulting from plate tectonics.
Ir is found in high concentrations in some meteorites, in which the solar system  s original chemical composition is preserved.
However, other reliable evidence suggests that the deposition of the boundary clay could not have taken one million years.
Lichens helped to speed the decomposition of the hard rock surfaces, preparing a soft bed of soil that was abundantly supplied with minerals that had been carried in the molten rock from the bowels of Earth.
Kramer surmised, therefore, that they were orienting according to the position of the Sun.
To test this idea, he blocked their view of the Sun and used mirrors to change its apparent position.
However, its position with respect to the surroundings could be changed by revolving either the inner cage containing the birds or the outer walls, which served as the background.
In many instances, spectators in the era before recorded sound experienced elaborate aural presentations alongside movies' visual images, from the Japanese benshi (narrators) crafting multivoiced dialogue narratives to original musical compositions performed by symphony-size orchestras in Europe and the United States.
As a result, pastoralists, like carnivores in general, occupy a higher position on the food chain.
There are several hypotheses, including warming or cooling of Earth, changes in seasonal fluctuations or ocean currents, and changing positions of the continents.
There appears to be a correlation between the positions of these planets and their sizes.
Other dimensions along which the two groups differ markedly are density and composition.
Variations in the composition of the planets are largely responsible for the density differences.
It is hypothesized that the primordial cloud of dust and gas from which all the planets are thought to have condensed had a composition somewhat similar to that of Jupiter.
In the largest caravels, two main masts held large square sails that provided the bulk of the thrust driving the ship forward, while a smaller forward mast held a triangular-shaped sail, called a lateen sail, which could be moved into a variety of positions to maneuver the ship.
The imposition of a military base involved the requisition of native lands for both the fort and the territory needed to feed and exercise the soldiers' animals.
The imposition of military rule also robbed local leaders of opportunities to participate in local government, so social development was stunted and the seeds of disaffection sown.
The emphasis of this new "community ecology" was on the composition and structure of communities consisting of different species.
The final stage of a succession, called the climax by Clements and early ecologists, is likewise not predictable or of uniform composition.
There is usually a good deal of turnover in species composition, even in a mature community.
The opposition to the Clementsian concept of plant ecology was initiated by Herbert Gleason, soon joined by various other ecologists.
In American society, however, the class structure was less rigid; some people changed occupations easily and believed it was their duty to improve their social and economic position.
Although aragonite has the same composition as the more familiar mineral known as calcite, it has a different crystal form, is relatively unstable, and in time changes to the more stable calcite.
In such cases, the original composition of the bone or shell remains, but the fossil is made harder and more durable.
Petrifaction may also involve a simultaneous exchange of the original substance of a dead plant or animal with mineral matter of a different composition.
The probability that actual remains of soft tissue will be preserved is improved if the organism dies in an environment of rapid deposition and oxygen deprivation.
The new candid photography  unposed pictures that were made when the subjects were unaware that their pictures were being taken  confirmed these scientific results, and at the same time, thanks to the radical cropping (trimming) of images that the camera often imposed, suggested new compositional formats.
All these diverse constituents are aggregated together to form chondritic meteorites, like Allende, that have chemical compositions much like that of the Sun.
To compare the compositions of a meteorite and the Sun, it is necessary that we use ratios of elements rather than simply the abundances of atoms.
The compositional similarity is striking.
Since practically all the solar system's mass resides in the Sun, this similarity in chemistry means that chondrites have average solar system composition, except for the most volatile elements; they are truly lumps of nebular matter, probably similar in composition to the matter from which planets were assembled.
This supposition stems from the close phylogenetic (natural evolutionary) relationship between the two groups.
Green algae store food as starch, as do land plants and have cell walls made of cellulose, similar in composition to those of land plants.
Some areas, because of their soil texture, topographical position, or distance from rivers or groundwater, have virtually no water available to plants, whereas others do.
For example, given the current position of the Pacific Plate, Hawaii is above the Pacific Ocean hot spot.
So the position of the Pacific Plate 50 million years ago can be determined by moving it such that a 50-million-year-old volcano in the hot-spot trail sits at the location of Hawaii today.
It is still unclear whether domesticated cattle were tamed independently in northern Africa or introduced to the continent from Southwest Asia.Whatever the source of the original tamed herds might have been, it seems entirely likely that much the same process of juxtaposition (living side by side) and control occurred in both Southwest Asia and northern Africa, and even in Europe, among peoples who had an intimate knowledge of the behavior of wild cattle.
To what extent competition determines the composition of a community and the density of particular species has been the source of considerable controversy.
Gradualism, with its stress on the slow pace of change, is a comforting position, repeated over and over again in generations of textbooks.
Experiments suggest that if fire did not occur in savannas in the Americas, species composition would change significantly.
Humus is necessary for rapid decomposition of leaves by bacteria and fungi and for recycling by surface roots.
These rocks are then uplifted sometime in the future to form new mountain ranges, which exhibit the sedimentary layers (and the remains of life within those layers) of the earlier episodes of erosion and deposition.
Where neighbors are in the same position, having filled up the whole of the desirable habitat available in their home territories, expansion is also problematic.
In addition to the marked changes in abundance observed in phytoplankton over the course of a year, there is also a marked change in species composition.
There is also evidence to suggest that grazers (animals that feed on plants or stationary animals), particularly selective grazers, can influence the phytoplankton species composition.
Many copepods (small, herbivorous crustaceans) and invertebrate larvae pick out selected phytoplankton species from mixed groups, changing the species composition.
Animals also influence soil composition.
Protozoa feed on organic matter and hasten its decomposition.
Kettlewell set up hidden observation positions and watched birds voraciously eat moths placed on tree trunks of a contrasting color.
There is also a large mass of material, developed below ground as root tissues, but this is less apparent Careful analysis of the aboveground material reveals that it is arranged in a series of layers, the precise number of layers varying with age and the nature of the forest The arrangement of the biological mass (biomass) of the vegetation into layered forms is termed its "structure" (as opposed to its "composition", which refers to the species of organisms forming the community).
Two additional kinds of evidence support the hypothesis that petroleum is a product of the decomposition of organic matter: oil possesses optical properties known only in hydrocarbons derived from organic matter, and oil contains nitrogen and certain compounds believed to originate only in living matter.
The bones of the fins of a Devonian rhipidistian exactly match in number and position the limb bones of the earliest known tetrapods, the amphibians.
Mirrors were also used to reverse the projected images to their original positions.
Since most seagrass systems are depositional environments, they eventually accumulate organic material that leads to the creation of fine-grained sediments with a much higher organic content than that of the surrounding unvegetated areas.
The commercial revolution also provided the opportunity for thousands of agricultural workers to improve their social position.
mark the position of the shoreline at a time of maximum inundation by the sea (6,500-5,500 years ago), when, through tectonic movement, the sea was three to five meters higher in relation to the contemporary landmass of Japan than at present.
