The semiarid lands bordering the deserts exist in a delicate ecological balance and are limited in their potential to adjust to increased environmental pressures.
It may be in a pool too small or too far from a potential market to justify the expense of drilling.
Among the main factors are Teotihuac  n  s geographic location on a natural trade route to the south and east of the Valley of Mexico, the obsidian resources in the Teotihuac  n Valley itself, and the valley  s potential for extensive irrigation.
With Cuicuilco eliminated as a potential rival, any one of a number of relatively modest towns might have emerged as a leading economic and political power in Central Mexico.
It seems likely that Teotihuac  n  s natural resources, along with the city elite  s ability to recognize their potential, gave the city a competitive edge over its neighbors.
Much of the potential for European economic development lay in what at first glance would seem to have been only sleepy villages.
The hypothesis that begging calls have evolved properties that reduce their potential for attracting predators yields a prediction: baby birds of species that experience high rates of nest predation should produce softer begging signals of higher frequency than nestlings of other species less often victimized by nest predators.
The answer lies apparently not in the increased energy costs of exaggerated begging  such energy costs are small relative to the potential gain in calories  but rather in the damage that any successful cheater would do to its siblings, which share genes with one another.
They were interested in all forms of sound technology and all potential avenues for commercial exploitation.
The filling of the Ataturk and other dams in Turkey has drastically reduced flows in the Euphrates, with potentially serious consequences for Syria and Iraq.
Because they are porous, sedimentary rocks, such as sandstones and conglomerates, are important potential sources of groundwater.
The second technique relies on evoked potentials, which are electrical brain responses that may be related to a particular stimulus because of where they originate.
The first and the third can be key factors in the structure of a biological community; that is, all the populations of organisms living together and potentially interacting in a particular area.
When not campaigning, soldiers needed to be occupied; otherwise they represented a potentially dangerous source of friction and disloyalty.
However, in many places (for example, California, Hawaii, the Philippines, Japan, Mexico, the rift valleys of Africa)the resource is potentially so large that its future will depend on the economics of production.
Although the potential is enormous, it is likely that in the near future geothermal energy can make important local contributions only where the resource is close to the user and the economics are favorable, as they are in California, New Zealand, and Iceland.
If so, the green algae would have been subjected to environmental pressures that resulted in adaptations that enhanced their potential to give rise to land-dwelling or organisms.
The evolutionary effect of competition on species has been referred to as "species selection;" however, this description is potentially misleading.
Another potential cost of this activity is greater exposure to predators since play is attention-getting behavior.
Some of he potential benefits relate directly to the healthy development of the brain and nervous system.
There is a danger, of course, that play may be misinterpreted or not recognized as play by others, potentially leading to aggression.
Detailed field studies of thick rock formations containing fossils provide the best potential tests of the competing theories.
Still, the results of the evaluation were promising, suggesting that the potential benefits of early intervention can be substantial. 
Though these bees do no sting, rival colonies of some species fight fiercely over potential nesting sites.
Though Hubbell and Johnson were interested in how bee behavior might affect colony distributions, they recognized that the availability of potential nest sites for colonies could also affect distributions.
They found that potential nest trees were distributed randomly through the study area.
They also found that the number of potential nest sites was much greater than the number of bee colonies.
The number of colonies in the study area was not limited by availability of suitable trees, and a clumped or regular distribution of colonies was not due to an underlying clumped or regular distribution of potential nest sites.
But Russia  s potential for growth was limited too, and in a few decades Russia would reach the barrier of inadequate energy that was already holding England back.
It was there that coal  s potential was enormous.
Since women are less fertile when they are breast-feeding, substituting cereals for mother  s milk would have resulted in closer spacing of births and the potential for a greater number of live births for each woman.
The number of translocations carried out under the banner of conservation has increased rapidly, and this has led to criticism of the technique because of the lack of evaluation of its efficacy and because of its potential disadvantages.
However, against this is the potential for reinforcement translocations to spread disease from one population to another or to introduce deleterious or maladaptive genes to a population.
The actions of these potential nest predators could have reduced moa populations without leaving much direct evidence.
For these reasons, it is hard to determine the likelihood that introduced disease organisms were a cause of the decline of moa, but they are potentially significant.
The high plant biomass of the tropics leads to a greater spatial complexity in the environment, and this leads to a higher potential for diversity in the living things that can occupy a region.
Biologist Ernst Mayr defined a species as "an actually or potentially interbreeding population that does not interbreed with other such populations when there is opportunity to do so."
In contrast, the food levels in the deeper layers of the ocean are greatly reduced, and the energy constraints on the animals are much more severe To survive at those levels, animals must maximize their energy input, finding and eating whatever potential food source may be present.
They also have significance because they provide coastal protection, opportunities for recreation, and are potential sources of substances like medicinal drugs.
Europe  s economic institutions, particularly those in England, were strong, had wealth available for new investment, and seemed almost to be waiting for some technological breakthrough that would expand their profit-making potential even more.
As well as cottage workers, who had the potential of being more mobile than peasants of some other countries.
