After several years of cultivation and harvest, the site would be restored at a cost much lower than the price of excavation and reburial, the standard practice for remediation of contaminated soils.
Teachers, it is thought, benefit from the practice of reflection, the conscious act of thinking deeply about and carefully examining the interactions and events within their own classrooms.
Educators T. Wildman and J. Niles (1987) describe a scheme for developing reflective practice in experienced teachers.
This was justified by the view that reflective practice could help teachers to feel more intellectually involved in their role and work in teaching and enable them to cope with the paucity of scientific fact and the uncertainty of knowledge in the discipline of teaching. 
The researchers estimate that the initial training of the teachers to view events objectively took between 20 and 30 hours, with the same number of hours again being required to practice the skills of reflection. 
Wildman and Niles identify three principles that facilitate reflective practice in a teaching situation.
The first is support from administrators in an education system, enabling teachers to understand the requirements of reflective practice and how it relates to teaching students.
The work of Wildman and Niles suggests the importance of recognizing some of the difficulties of instituting reflective practice.
Others have noted this, making a similar point about the teaching profession  s cultural inhibitions about reflective practice.
Zeichner and Liston (1987) point out the inconsistency between the role of the teacher as a (reflective) professional decision maker and the more usual role of the teacher as a technician, putting into practice the ideas of theirs.
Apparently, the most obvious reason for teachers to work toward reflective practice is that teacher educators think it is a good thing.
The psychologist Dale Kunkel showed that the practice of host selling reduced children's ability to distinguish between advertising and program material.
Thanks to extremely fine-grained excavation and extensive use of flotation methods (through which seeds are recovered from soil samples), we know a great deal about the foraging practices of the inhabitants of Abu Hureyra in Syria's Euphrates valley.
Thus, both factors can affect the cycle, which, in practice, seems to be generated by the conjunction of the two factors.
Rubs are created about one to two months before the breeding season (the rut).Hence for a long time biologists believed that male deer used buck rubs not only to clean and polish antlers but also to provide practice for the ensuing male-to-male combat during the rut.
Play also stimulates the development of the muscle tissues themselves and may provide the opportunity to practice those movements needed for survival.
Prey species, like young deer or goats, for example, typically play by performing sudden flight movements and turns, whereas predator species, such as cats, practice stalking, pouncing, and biting.
Play allows a young animal to explore its environment and practice skills in comparative safety since the surrounding adults generally do not expect the young do deal with threats or predators.
Play can also provide practice in social behaviors needed for courtship and mating.
In short, children require development appropriate educational practice, which is education that is based on both typical development and the unique characteristics of a given child. 
Local rulers could no longer protect their relatives and attendants in legal cases, and with the ending in 1905 of the practice of forcing peasant farmers to work part-time for local ruling families, then, were severed from their traditional social context. 
Reviewing translocation of amphibians and reptiles, researchers C.Kenneth Dodd and Richard A. Siegel concluded that most projects have not demonstrated success as conservation techniques and should not be advocated as though they were acceptable management and mitigation practices.
Perhaps the most serious concern about the transgenic crop plants currently in use is that they encourage farmers to move farther away from sustainable agricultural farming practices, meaning ones that allow natural resources to continually regenerate over the long run.
Planting a glyphosate-resistant crop commits a farmer to using that herbicide for the reason, probably to the exclusion of all other herbicides and other weed-control practices.
Farmers who use Bt transgenics may not feel that they need to follow through with integrated pest-management practices that use beneficial insects and timely applications of pesticides to control insect pests.
The assembly was sovereign in all matters but in practice delegated its power to subordinate bodies such as the council, which prepared the agenda firm for meetings of the assembly, and the courts, which took care of most judicial matters.
At the same time, they have retained some traditional cultural practices that are associated with particular art forms.
Now that we know much more about ancient exchange and commerce, we know that, because no one aspect of trade was an overriding cause of cultural change or evolution in commercial practices, trade can never be looked on as a unifying factor or as a primary agent of ancient civilization.
Learning these complex signs required long training and much practice; inevitably, literacy was largely limited to a small professional class, the scribes.
