Pakicetus probably detected sound through the ear opening as in land mammals.
It probably bred and gave birth on land.
On land, where it probably bred and gave birth, Ambulocetus may have moved around very much like a modern sea lion.
For example, wild cattle (bovines) and horses are portrayed more often than we would expect by chance, probably because they were larger and heavier (meatier) than other animals in the environment.
Cattle were introduced from Asia, as probably were domestic sheep and goats.
These people probably originated in eastern Nigeria.
At its height, between about A.D. 150 and 700, it probably had a population of more than 125,000 people and covered at least 20 square kilometers.
Long-distance trade in obsidian probably gave the elite residents of Teotihuac  n access to a wide variety of exotic good, as well as a relatively prosperous life.
Finally, the growing population was probably fed by increasing the number and size of irrigated fields.
The shallow seas on the continents probably buffered the temperature of the nearby air, keeping it relatively constant.
Outflow channels are probably relics of catastrophic flooding on Mars long ago.
Instead, they are probably the paths taken by huge volumes of water draining from the southern highlands into the northern plains.
Lichens were probably the first successful flora.
Toth has applied these criteria to the similarly made pebble tools from a number of early sites (before 1.5 million years) at Koobi Fora, Kenya, probably made by Homo habilis.
Inequalities of wealth and rank certainly exist, and have probably existed in most pastoralist societies, but except in periods of military conquest, they are normally too slight to generate the stable, hereditary hierarchies that are usually implied by the use of the term class.
Large loggerhead and green turtles can maintain their body temperature at a degree or two above that of the surrounding water, and gigantothermy is probably the way they do it.
Few cases of absolute commensalism probably exist, because it is unlikely that one of the partners will be completely unaffected.
When the ants are removed, the trees usually die, probably because herbivores damage them so much that they are unable to compete with surrounding vegetation for light and growing space.
Although goods could be requisitioned, they were usually paid for, and this probably stimulated changes in the local economy.
They were no longer a series of small bands but lived in a large community with more elaborate social organization, probably grouped into clans of people of common descent.
Geothermal energy probably will not make large-scale contributions to the world energy budget until well into the twenty-first century, if ever.
Since practically all the solar system's mass resides in the Sun, this similarity in chemistry means that chondrites have average solar system composition, except for the most volatile elements; they are truly lumps of nebular matter, probably similar in composition to the matter from which planets were assembled.
Abandoning small extended-family households to move into these large pueblos with dozens if not hundreds of other people was probably traumatic.
As the Little Ice Age progressed, farmers probably moved their fields to lower elevations, infringing on the lands of other farmers and pushing people together, thus contributing to the aggregations.
Archaeologists find that even the most isolated residences during the eleventh and twelfth centuries obtained some pottery, and probably food, from some distance away, while major ceremonial events were opportunities for sharing food and crafts.
Of today's different groups of algae, green algae are probably the most similar to ancestral plants.
Most desert plants are probably best classified as xerophytes.
It was these conditions that allowed an elite to emerge, probably as an organizing class, and to sustain itself through the control of surplus crops.
Other innovations of the late fourth millennium include the wheel, probably developed first as a more efficient way of making pottery and then transferred to transport.
Early in the Uruk period, the use of undecorated utilitarian pottery was probably the result of specialized mass production.
In the 1840s American geologist James Daly observed that the different Hawaii Islands seem to share a similar geologic evolution but are progressively more eroded, and therefore probably older, toward the northwest.
The experiments with domestication probably occurred in many places, as people living in ever-drier environments cast around for more predictable food supplies.
By this time, the Saharan people were probably using domestic crops, experimenting with such summer rainfall crops as sorghum and millet as they moved out of areas where they could grow wheat, barley, and other Mediterranean crops.
Third, older, more dominant bucks produce more buck rubs and probably deposit more glandular secretions on a given rub.
The earliest waterpower mills were probably vertical-axis mills for grinding corn, known as Norse or Greek mills, which seem to have appeared during the first or second century B.C.
Most savannas probably experience mild fires frequently and major burns every two years or so.
This was probably a large increase over the figure even two or three decades earlier, during the late 1800s.
The rural population both dispersed and grew, and was probably less homogeneous and more mobile than it hand been a generation earlier.
Papermaking spread quickly to Egypt---and eventually to Sicily and Spain---but it was several centuries before paper supplanted parchment for copies of the Koran, probably because of the conservative nature of religious art and its practitioners.
Ants are probably the most frequent and certainly the most persistent defenders of plants.
High levels of physical activity and long periods of nursing, which are common among modern simple foragers, probably also contributed to low levels of female fertility if they were likewise common among ancient foragers. 
So even after reaching an area  s carrying capacity, Holocene human populations probably continued to grow in food-rich regions, overshooting the ability of the territory to feed the population, again within the context of the same subsistence strategy.
Hierarchies that did not exist in earlier foraging groups but that were helpful in structuring cooperative labor and in organizing more-complex technologies probably became established, even before domestication and agriculture, as pre-Neolithic societies (before the tenth millennium B C E) reacted to the population increase.
These organic metabolites could, and probably do, include a number of different classes of organic compounds.
Among other soil-dwelling animals, the earthworm is probably the most important.
This zero, Forbes casually speculated--he simply extended a line on his graph of animal number versus depth--probably began at a depth of 1,800 feet.
Much more is known about Anaximander than about Anaximenes, probably because Anaximander, who was born sometime around 610 BCE, ambitiously attempted to write a comprehensive history of the universe.
Anaximander, observing the motions of the heavens around the polestar, was probably the first of the Greek philosophers to picture the sky as sphere completely surrounding Earth--an idea that, elaborated upon later, would prevail until the advent of the Scientific Revolution in the seventeenth century. 
All we can say for certain about Anaximenes, who was probably born around 560 BCE, is that following in the tradition of Anaximander, he also disagreed with his mentor.
Prior to Europeans settling and farming the Great Plains Region, raccoons probably were just found along its rivers and streams and in the wooded areas of its southeastern section.
Planting a glyphosate-resistant crop commits a farmer to using that herbicide for the reason, probably to the exclusion of all other herbicides and other weed-control practices.
Scholars agree that writing originated somewhere in the Middle East, probably Mesopotamia, around the fourth millennium B.C.E.
The clay tablets usually were not fired; sun drying was probably reckoned enough to preserve the text for as long as it was being used.
In fact, water probably once dominated the Venusian atmosphere.
Trade, nevertheless, was probably one of many variables that led to the emergence of palace economies in Minoan Crete.
Rathje s hypothesis probably explains part of the complex process of Mayan state formation, but it suffers from the objection that suitable alternative raw materials can be found in the lowlands.
Fish probably originated in the oceans, and our first records of them are in marine rocks.
Thus, by the Devonian the land habitat marginal to freshwater was probably a rich source of protein that could be exploited by an animal that could easily climb out of water.
In recent times the British artist David Hockney has published his investigations into the secret use of the camera obscura, claiming that for up to 400 years, many of Western art  s great masters probably used the device to produce almost photographically realistic details in their paintings.
In experimenting with it, he found that it is actually quite difficult to use for drawing, and he speculates that the artists probably combined their observations from life with tracing of shapes.
Furthermore, a species-rich ecosystem is more likely to have species with similar ecological functions, so that if a species is lost from an ecosystem, another species, probably a competitor, is likely to flourish and occupy its functional role.
The flooding of Britain with red-gloss pottery form Gaul (modern-day France), decorated with scenes from Classical mythology, probably brought many into contact with the styles and artistic concepts of the Greco-Roman world for the first time, whether or not the symbolism was understood.
The Fishbourne villa, built in the third quarter of the first century A.D., probably for the native client king Cogidubnus, amply illustrates his Roman pretensions.
The duck-billed dinosaurs known as hadrosaurs are a good example of a group whose jaw joint is below the level of the tooth row, which probably helped them grind up tough, fibrous vegetation. 
