The process perceived by these anthropologists may be summarized briefly.
It has been estimated that an additional one-fourth of the Earth's land surface is threatened by this process. 
The process may be accelerated in subsequent decades if global warming resulting from air pollution seriously increases. 
There is little doubt, however, that desertification in most areas results primarily from human activities rather than natural processes.
Four specific activities have been identified as major contributors to the desertification processes: overcultivation, overgrazing, firewood gathering, and overirrigation.
The extreme seriousness of desertification results from the vast areas of land and the tremendous numbers of people affected, as well as from the great difficulty of reversing or even slowing the process.
The incentive of the farmers who wish to conserve water is reduced by their knowledge that many of their neighbors are profiting by using great amounts of water, and in the process are drawing down the entire region  s water supplies.
Even if this process proves successful, however, it would almost triple water costs.
Continued sedimentation  the process of deposits   settling on the sea bottom  buries the organic matter and subjects it to higher temperatures and pressures, which convert the organic matter to oil and gas.
With question such as these clearly before them, the scientists aboard the Glomar Challenger processed to the Mediterranean to search for the answers.
Still, the process is uncertain, and peaceful migration  or simply rapid demographic growth  may have also caused the Bantu explosion. 
This process took time and patience and effective trainers.
One way to estimate how all the various processes leading to climate variability will combine is by using computer models of the global climate.
By contrast, wooden statues were carved from several pieces of wood that were pegged together to form the finished work, and metal statues were either made by wrapping sheet metal around a wooden core or cast by the lost wax process.
The question perplexed people for years, until, in the 1950s, a German scientist named Gustave Kramer provided some answers and, in the process, raised new questions.
New color processes, larger or differently shaped screen sizes, multiple-screen projections, even television, were among the developments invented or tried out during the period, sometimes with startling success.
First, primary groups are critical to the socialization process.
The people of the Netherlands, with a long tradition of fisheries and mercantile shipping, had difficulty in developing good harbors suitable for steamships: eventually they did so at Rotterdam and Amsterdam, with exceptional results for transit trade with Germany and central Europe and for the processing of overseas foodstuffs and raw materials (sugar, tobacco, chocolate, grain, and eventually oil).
This process explains why the top of the cloud becomes positively charged, while the center becomes negatively charged.
The reverse process brought young men to Britain, where many continued to live after their 20 to 25 years of service, and this added to the cosmopolitan Roman character of the frontier population.
This process of settling in as a community over several generations, combined with local recruitment, presumably accounts for the apparent stability of the British northern frontier in the later Roman period.
Succession is influenced by many factors: the nature of the soil, exposure to sun and wind, regularity of precipitation, chance colonizations, and many other random processes.
Many other processes may alter the shell of a clam or snail and enhance its chances for preservation.
This process is termed "replacement" because solutions have dissolved the original material and replaced it with an equal volume of the new substance.
Replacement can be a marvelously precise process, so that details of shell ornamentation, tree rings in wood, and delicate structures in bone are accurately preserved.
Geothermal energy is in a sense not renewable, because in most cases the heat would be drawn out of a reservoir much more rapidly than it would be replaced by the very slow geological processes by which heat flows through solid rock into a heat reservoir.
Mithen proposes the existence of four mental elements to account for the emergence of farming: (1) the ability to develop tools that could be used intensively to harvest and process plant resources; (2) the tendency to use plants and animals as the medium to acquire social prestige and power; (3) the tendency to develop "social relationships" with animals structurally similar to those developed with people  specifically, the ability to think of animals as people (anthropomorphism) and of people as animals (totemism); and (4) the tendency to manipulate plants and animals.
A second and very different process was patented by the British inventor William Henry Talbot (1800-1877) in 1841.
Talbot's "calotype" was the first negative-to-positive process and the direct ancestor of the modern photograph.
The two processes produced very different results.
However, detailed studies of the chondrite matrix suggest that much of it, too, has been formed by condensation or melting in the nebula, although minute amounts of surviving interstellar dust are mixed with the processed materials.
The city is an extraordinary processor of mass and energy and has its own metabolism.
All the heat that warms a building eventually transfers to the surrounding air, a process that is quickest where houses are poorly insulated.
Thus, city surfaces, as well as the air above them, tend to be drier between episodes of rain; with little water available for the cooling process of evaporation, relative humidities are usually lower.
In order to increase production on existing land, the peasants made more use of crop rotation and, in particular, began to apply animal waste to the soil regularly, rather than leaving the fertilization process up to the grazing livestock.
In the period 1970 to 1986, rainfall in the area decreased from 1,000 millimeters to 650 millimeters per annum, while above-average temperatures speeded up the evapotranspiration rate (the rate at which water is lost to the atmosphere through evaporation and the processes of plant life).
Wood, the primary source of heat for homes and industries and also used in the iron industry as processed charcoal, was diminishing in supply.
Most plant tissues die if their water content falls too low: the nutrients that feed plants are transmitted by water; water is a raw material in the vital process of photosynthesis; and water regulates the temperature of a plant by its ability to absorb heat and because water vapor lost to the atmosphere through the leaves helps to lower plant temperatures.
In an early fourth-millennium level of the Eanna archaeological site at Uruk, a pottery style appears that is most characteristic of this process, the so-called beveled-rim bowl.
They therefore permit the reconstruction of the process of seafloor spreading, and consequently of the geography of continents and of ocean basins in the past.
It is still unclear whether domesticated cattle were tamed independently in northern Africa or introduced to the continent from Southwest Asia.Whatever the source of the original tamed herds might have been, it seems entirely likely that much the same process of juxtaposition (living side by side) and control occurred in both Southwest Asia and northern Africa, and even in Europe, among peoples who had an intimate knowledge of the behavior of wild cattle.
If evolution had been a continuous, gradual process, one might expect that almost every fossil specimen would be slightly different from every other. 
Because Graves  s study of geographically isolated populations of Isthmus fishes offers a glimpse of the beginning of a process of gradual accumulation of mutations that are neutral or adaptive, divergences here might be evidence of allopatric speciation in process. 
Colonization is a process with two components: invasion and survival.
The researchers also studied the process by which the aggressive species establish new colonies.
The need to oversee the entire process brought about the emergence of an elite that was eventually transformed into a government.
How the first governments took shape in these areas is not certain, but anthropologists studying the evolution of human communities in various parts of the world have discovered that one common stage in the process is the emergence of what are called   big men   within a single village or a collection of villages.
The use of powerful, steam-driven bellows in blast furnaces helped iron makers switch over rapidly from limited charcoal to unlimited coke (which is made from coal) in the smelting of pig iron (the process of refining impure iron) after 1770.
More important than the amount of time Herodotus computed, which turns out to be trivial compared with the age of Earth, was the notion that one could estimate ages of geologic features by determining rates of the processes responsible for such features, and then assuming the rates to be roughly constant over time.
However, James Hutton (1726-1797), known as the founder of modern geology, was the first to have the important insight that geologic processes are cyclic in nature.
With the further assumption that these geologic processes were generally no more or less vigorous than they are today, Hutton's examination of sedimentary layers led him to realize that Earth's history must be enormous, that geologic time is an abyss and human history a speck by comparison.
The bacteria that legumes host within their root nodules (small swellings on the root) change nitrogen gas from the atmosphere into nitrogen compounds that plants are able to metabolize, a process, known as nitrogen fixation, that makes the soil more fertile.
For a biologist studying a living process, such as the whirling movement of a bacterium, a light microscope equipped with a video camera might be better than either a scanning electron microscope or a transmission electron microscope.
Cleisthenes' principal contribution to the creation of democracy at Athens was to complete the long process of weakening family and dam structures, especially among the aristocrats, and to set in their place locality-based corporations called demes, which became the point of entry for all civic and most religious life in Athens.
Thus, the restoration of harmony through a ceremony can be part of a curing process.
Thus, intensified trade and interaction, and the flowering of specialist crafts, in a complex process of positive feedback, led to much more complex societies based on palaces, which were the economic hubs of a new Minoan civilization.
Rathje s hypothesis probably explains part of the complex process of Mayan state formation, but it suffers from the objection that suitable alternative raw materials can be found in the lowlands.
Only a little heating will soften the ice and get the process started, allowing the rock and metal to sink to the center and the slushy ice to float to the surface.
Yet Callisto seems to have frozen solid before the process of differentiation was complete.
The processes that interact to produce an El  Nifio involve conditions all across the Pacific, not just in the waters off South America.
The high rate of metabolism (the processing of energy for survival) of the microorganisms in the sediments causes sediments to be anaerobic (without oxygen) below the first few millimeters.
According to ecologist J. W. Kenworthy, anaerobic processes of the microorganisms in the sediment are an important mechanism for regenerating and recycling nutrients and carbon, ensuring the high rates of productivity  that is, the amount of organic material produced-that are measured in those beds.
Another consequence of the limited availability of prey is that many animals have developed ways of coping with much larger food particles, relative to their own body size, than the equivalent shallower species can process.
This process helps explain why both tend to be more frequent over cities.
It was a German invention and the culmination of a complex process.
In the early Middle Ages, Europe imported an industrial process from China, which turned almost any kind of fibrous material into pulp that was then spread in sheets.
As Gutenberg, apart from getting the key idea, had to solve a lot of practical problems, including imposing paper and ink into the process and the actual printing itself, for which he adapted the screw press used by winemakers, it is amazing that his first product does not look at all rudimentary.
The process was aided by two factors: the new demand for cheap classical texts and the translation of the Latin Bible into "modern" languages.
