In areas where considerable soil still remains, though, a rigorously enforced program of land protection and cover-crop planting may make it possible to reverse the present deterioration of the surface. 
But the movies differed significantly from these other forms of entertainment, which depended on either live performance or (in the case of the slide-and-lantern shows) the active involvement of a master of ceremonies who assembled the final program.
Even though early exhibitors shaped their film programs by mixing films and other entertainments together in whichever way they thought would be most attractive to audiences or by accompanying them with lectures, their creative control remained limited.
The teachers were taken through a program of talking about teaching events, moving on to reflecting about specific issues in a supported, and later an independent, manner. 
The teachers in the program described how they found it difficult to put aside the immediate demands of others in order to give themselves the time they needed to develop their reflective skills.
Support and encouragement were also required to help teachers in the program cope with aspects of their professional life with which they were not comfortable.
Their competition and collaboration were creating the broadcasting industry in the United States, beginning with the introduction of commercial radio programming in the early 1920s.
Such programs are much needed because in many arid lands there is only a vague idea of the extent of groundwater resources.
Host selling involves blending advertisements with regular programming in a way that makes it difficult to distinguish one from the other.
The psychologist Dale Kunkel showed that the practice of host selling reduced children's ability to distinguish between advertising and program material.
Little success has been reported in New Zealand and England; Washington State  s management program has tried many of these methods and is presently using the herbicide glyphosphate to control its spread.
Preschools---educational programs for children under the age of five---differ significantly from one country to another according to the views that different societies hold regarding the purpose of early childhood education.
While many programs designed for preschoolers focus primarily on social and emotional factors, some are geared mainly toward promoting cognitive gains and preparing preschoolers for the formal instruction they will experience when they start kindergarten.
In the United States, the best-known program designed to promote future academic success is Head Start.
Established in the 1960s when the United States declared the War on Poverty, the program has served over 13 million children and their families.
The program, which stresses parental involvement, was designed to serve the   whole child  , including children  s physical health, self-confidence, social responsibility, and social and emotional development.
If, for instance, the program is expected to provide long-term increases in IQ(intelligence quotient) scores, it is a disappointment.
Although graduates of Head Start programs tend to show immediate IQ gains, these increases do lot last.
Furthermore, graduates of Head Start programs have better future school grade.
In addition, results from other types of preschool readiness programs indicate that those who participate and graduate are less likely to repeat grades, and they are more likely to complete school than readiness program, for every dollar spent on the program, taxpayers saved seven dollars by the time the graduates reached the age of 27. 
The most recent comprehensive evaluation of early intervention programs suggests that, taken as a group, preschools programs can provide significant benefits, and that government funds invested early in life may ultimately lead to a reduction in future costs.
For instance, compared with children who did not participate in early intervention programs, participants in various programs showed gains in emotional or cognitive development, better educational outcomes, increased economic self-sufficiency, reduced level of criminal activity, and improved health-related behaviors.
Of course, not every program produced all these benefits, and not every child benefited to the same extent.
Furthermore, some researchers argue that less-expensive programs are just as good as relatively expensive ones, such as Head Start.
Not everyone agrees that programs that seek to enhance academic skills during the preschool years are a good thing.
The nature of translocation ranges from highly organized and researched national or international programs to as hoc releases of rescued animals by well-intentioned animal lovers.
