In 1979, a team looking for fossils in northern Pakistan found what proved to be the oldest fossil whale.
These Kinetoscope arcades were modeled on phonograph parlors, which had proven successful for Edison several years earlier.
Even if this process proves successful, however, it would almost triple water costs.
Another explanation for the focus on animals might be that these people sought to improve their luck at hunting.
In 1947 Norwegian adventurer Thor Heyerdahl drifted on a balsa-log raft westward with the winds and currents across the Pacific from South America to prove his theory that Pacific islanders were Native Americans (also called American Indians).
In 1969 he crossed the Atlantic in an Egyptian-style reed boat to prove Egyptian influences in the Americas.
This   atmospheric engine,   invented by Thomas Savery and vastly improved by his partner, Thomas Newcomen, embodied revolutionary principles, but it was so slow and wasteful of fuel that it could not be employed outside the coal mines for which it had been designed.
Conversely, improved encoding of what they hear may help them better understand and remember stories and thus make the stories more useful for remembering future events.
Thus, all three explanations  physiological maturation, hearing and producing stories about past events, and improved encoding of key aspects of events  seem likely to be involved in overcoming infantile amnesia.
Yet even setting aside the unproven hints of ancient oceans, the extent of the outflow channels suggests that a huge total volume of water existed on Mars in the past.
This view is inaccurate, and the reason proves to be important.
It is the use of horses for transportation and warfare that explains why Inner Eurasian pastoralism proved the most mobile and the most militaristic of all major forms of pastoralism.
Spices not only dramatically improved the taste of the European diet but also were used to manufacture perfumes and certain medicines.
Such activities had a major effect on the local area, in particular with the construction of infrastructure such as roads, which improved access to remote areas.
After 1815 improved transportation enabled more and more western farmers to escape a self-sufficient way of life and enter a national market economy.
In American society, however, the class structure was less rigid; some people changed occupations easily and believed it was their duty to improve their social and economic position.
The first step toward an improvement of western transportation was the construction of turnpikes.
However, the chances of escaping complete destruction are vastly improved if the organism happens to have a mineralized skeleton and dies in a place where it can be quickly buried by sediment.
The probability that actual remains of soft tissue will be preserved is improved if the organism dies in an environment of rapid deposition and oxygen deprivation.
improvements in memory seem to occur.
The high prices encouraged the peasants to improve their animal husbandry techniques; for example, they began feeding their animals indoors in order to raise the milk yield of their cows.
But the shortage of crews proved to be a greater and greater problem, despite continuous appeal to Venic's tradition of maritime greatness.
Improvements in road construction and sailing had occurred, but shipping heavy freight over land remained expensive, even with the use of rivers and canals wherever possible.
As transportation improved, distant and larger markets within the nation could be reached, thereby encouraging the development of larger factories to keep pace with increasing sales.
(They also proved that, in principle, the overshot wheel, a type of wheel in which an overhead stream of water powers the wheel, should win the efficiency competition.)
The result was relentless pressure to improve technique and design.
For instance, compared with children who did not participate in early intervention programs, participants in various programs showed gains in emotional or cognitive development, better educational outcomes, increased economic self-sufficiency, reduced level of criminal activity, and improved health-related behaviors.
As well as can be measured, rural standards of living improved in the Fifth Reign.
As it turned out, the existence of the azoic zone had been disproved even before Forbes suggested it, and the theory continued to be contradicted regularly throughout its long and influential life.
In fact, the most powerful modern electron microscopes can distinguish objects as small as 0.2 nanometers, a thousandfold improvement over the light microscope.
Firefighters became much more successful at achieving that goal after 1945, thanks to improved firefighting technology.
However, the idea that amphibians have no control whatsoever over their body temperature has been proven false because their body temperature does not always correspond to the surrounding temperature.
In 1558 Giovanni Battista Della Porta wrote in his twenty-volume work Magia naturalis (meaning "natural magic") instructions for adding a convex lens to improve the quality of the image thrown against a canvas or panel in the darkened area where its outlines could be traced.
This device proved a decisive factor in the later development of credit and commerce in northern Europe.
The commercial revolution also provided the opportunity for thousands of agricultural workers to improve their social position.
Darwin s theory was therefore proved basically correct.
There was also an increase in foreign trade through Guangzhou (southern China) and some improvement of transportation within the empire.
Productivity in agriculture was also improved by capital investments, first of all in irrigation.
In the years 1446-1448, two German goldsmiths, Johannes Gutenberg and Johann Fust, made use of cheap paper to introduce a critical improvement in the way written pages were reproduced.
In the sixteenth century enclosures were usually used for creating sheep pastures, but by the eighteenth century new farming techniques made it advantageous for large landowners to seek enclosures in order to improve agricultural production.
