They are designed to withstand the forces of compression (pushing together), tension (pulling apart), bending, or a combination of these in different parts of the structure.
Water or steam may be pumped down adjacent wells to help push the oil out.
The drying up of what is now the Sahara desert had pushed many peoples to the south into sub-Sahara Africa.
Nourished by their imported supply of nutrients, the young plants push out their roots and establish their place in the sun. 
Glaciers move slowly across the land with tremendous energy, carving into even the hardest rock formations and thereby reshaping the landscape as they engulf, push, drag, and finally deposit rock debris in places far from its original location.
Therefore, these social traits helped to produce the nomadic and daring settlers who kept pushing westward beyond the fringes of settlement.
For transitions of such suddenness, archaeologists consider either pull factors (benefits that drew families together) or push factors (some external threat or crisis that forced people to aggregate).
In this case, push explanations dominate.
Population growth is considered a particularly influential push.
Competition for good farmland may also have prompted people to bond together to assert rights over the best fields.Another important push was the onset of the Little Ice Age, a climatic phenomenon that led to cooler temperatures in the Northern Hemisphere.
As the Little Ice Age progressed, farmers probably moved their fields to lower elevations, infringing on the lands of other farmers and pushing people together, thus contributing to the aggregations.
In the face of all these pushes, people in the Mesa Verde area had yet another reason to move into communal villages: the need for greater cooperation.
Scrapes consist of a clearing (about 0.5 meter in diameter) and shallow depression made by pushing aside the leaves covering the ground; after making the scrape, the deer typically urinates in the depression.
In fact, according to developmental psychologist David Elkind, United States society tends to push children so rapidly that they begin to feel tress and pressure at a young age.
Conversely, silts deposited by rivers sometimes push the sea farther back, creating new land, as at Ephesus in western Turkey, a port on the coast in Roman times but today some five kilometers inland.
