A local population that goes extinct is quickly replaced by immigrants from an adjacent community.
Why did animal life evolve so quickly?
However, the chances of escaping complete destruction are vastly improved if the organism happens to have a mineralized skeleton and dies in a place where it can be quickly buried by sediment.
Study of the textures of chondrules confirms that they cooled rather quickly, in times measured in minutes or hours, so the heating events that formed them must have been localized.
Such species generally grow rapidly and quickly dominate new sites, excluding other species with lower invasion and growth rates.
Products such as lard, tallow, and cheese quickly spoiled if stored in New Orleans   hot and humid warehouses.
Papermaking spread quickly to Egypt---and eventually to Sicily and Spain---but it was several centuries before paper supplanted parchment for copies of the Koran, probably because of the conservative nature of religious art and its practitioners.
The steam engine was quickly put to use in several industries in Britain.
From the initial work came a suite of discoveries leading to radio isotopic dating, which quickly led to the realization that Earth must be billions of years old, and to the discovery of nuclear fusion as an energy source capable of sustaining the Sun's luminosity for that amount of time.
While this factor may also contribute, observations suggest that phytoplankton populations rise and fall much more quickly than nutrient concentrations change.
Melanics were normally quickly eliminated in nonindustrial areas by adverse selection; birds spotted them easily.
These dramatic balconies quickly became a signature of modern architects such as Frank Lloyd Wright.
Such buildings were so different from any previous form of architecture that they quickly acquired a new name  the skyscraper.
The metal supporting buildings became soft when exposed to fire and collapsed relatively quickly.
In the wetter eastern United States, dead trees rot away more quickly than in the drier West, where more dead trees persist like giant matchsticks.
Their most successful scriptorium quickly imported two leading German printers to set up presses in their book-producing shop.
However, since many nations and governments wanted their own presses, the trade quickly became international.
Dutch peasant farmers were known throughout Europe for their agricultural innovations, but as British markets and opportunities grew, the English quickly learned from them.
