Groundwater is the word used to describe water that saturates the ground, filling all the available spaces.
In lowland country almost any spot on the ground may overlie what was once the bed of a river that has since become buried by soil; if they are now below the water  s upper surface (the water table), the gravels and sands of the former riverbed, and its sandbars, will be saturated with groundwater. 
Much of the water in a sample of water-saturated sediment or rock will drain from it if the sample is put in a suitable dry place.
The total volume of water in the saturated sample must therefore be thought of as consisting of water that can, and water that cannot, drain away. 
Frequently the myths include representatives of those supernatural forces that the rites celebrate or hope to influence.
Thus, the recalling of an event (a hunt, battle, or other feat) is elaborated through the narrator  s pantomime and impersonation and eventually through each role being assumed by a different person.
Immediately adjacent to the timberline, the tundra consists of a fairly complete cover of low-lying shrubs, herbs, and grasses, while higher up the number and diversity of species decrease until there is much bare ground with occasional mosses and lichens and some prostrate cushion plants.
Desertification is accomplished primarily through the loss of stabilizing natural vegetation and the subsequent accelerated erosion of the soil by wind and water.
Water absorption is greatly reduced; consequently runoff is increased, resulting in accelerated erosion rates.
The process may be accelerated in subsequent decades if global warming resulting from air pollution seriously increases. 
This is usually followed by the drying of the soil and accelerated erosion. 
The water evaporates and the salts are left behind, creating a white crustal layer that prevents air and water from reaching the underlying soil. 
Modern architectural forms generally have three separate components comparable to elements of the human body: a supporting skeleton or frame, an outer skin enclosing the interior spaces, and equipment, similar to the body  s vital organs and systems.
That invention was the arch, a curved structure originally made of separate stone or brick segments.
Roman builders perfected the semicircular arch made of separate blocks of stone.
Estimates indicate that the aquifer contains enough water to fill Lake Huron, but unfortunately, under the semiarid climatic conditions that presently exist in the region, rates of addition to the aquifer are minimal, amounting to about half a centimeter a year.
This unprecedented development of a finite groundwater resource with an almost negligible natural recharge rate  that is, virtually no natural water source to replenish the water supply  has caused water tables in the region to fall drastically.
In places, the water table is declining at a rate of a meter a year, necessitating the periodic deepening of wells and the use of ever-more-powerful pumps.
It is estimated that at current withdrawal rates, much of the aquifer will run dry within 40 years.
Others, however, have adopted the philosophy that it is best to use the water while it is still economically profitable to do so and to concentrate on high-value crops such as cotton.
In contrast, a complex climax community, such as a temperate forest, will tolerate considerable damage from weather to pests.
At least in temperate zones, maximum diversity is often found in mid-successional stages, not in the climax community.
One compensation for not hibernating is the built-in urge to migrate.
Many shafts of spears and similar objects were decorated with figures of animals.
In addition to other artworks, figurines representing the human female in exaggerated form have also been found at Upper Paleolithic sites.
Both oil and gas are less dense than water, so they generally tend to rise upward through water-saturated rock and sediment. 
At a refinery, the crude oil from underground is separated into natural gas, gasoline, kerosene, and various oils.
Even nitrogen, which is a gas in its elemental state, is normally absorbed from the soil as nitrate ions.
So-called serpentine soils, for example, are deficient in calcium, and only plants able to tolerate low levels of this mineral can survive.
Although most plants cannot survive in these soils, certain plants have the ability to tolerate high levels of these minerals.
Scientists have known for some time that certain plants, called hyperaccumulators, can concentrate minerals at levels a hundredfold or greater than normal.
Contrary to the arguments of some that much of the pacific was settled by Polynesians accidentally marooned after being lost and adrift, it seems reasonable that this feat was accomplished by deliberate colonization expeditions that set out fully stocked with food and domesticated plants and animals.
In the 1760s, James Watt perfected a separate condenser for the steam, so that the cylinder did not have to be cooled at every stroke; then he devised a way to make the piston turn a wheel and thus convert reciprocating (back and forth) motion into rotary motion.
It liberated industry from dependence on running water.
One question was related to evidence that the invertebrate fauna (animals without spines) of the Mediterranean had changed abruptly about 6 million years ago.
A few managed to migrate into the Atlantic.
These structures had been detected years earlier by echo-sounding instruments, but they had never been penetrated in the course of drilling.
In the days following, samples of solid gypsum were repeatedly brought on deck as drilling operations penetrated the seafloor.
Crustal movements closed the straits, and the landlocked Mediterranean began to evaporate.
Increasing salinity caused by the evaporation resulted in the extermination of scores of invertebrate species.
In the central deeper part of the basin, the last of the brine evaporated to precipitate more soluble sodium chloride (salt).
Once the idea of planting diffused, Africans began to develop their own crops, such as certain varieties of rice, and they demonstrated a continued receptiveness to new imports.
Knowledge of iron making penetrated into the forest and savannahs of West Africa at roughly the same time that iron making was reaching Europe.
Perhaps dinosaurs could not tolerate these extreme temperature changes and became extinct.
Because it usually exists in a metallic state, it was preferentially incorporated in Earth  s core as the planet cooled and consolidated.
Judging from the width and depth of the channels, the flow rates must have been truly enormous  perhaps as much as a hundred times greater than the 105 tons per second carried by the great Amazon river.
A 2003 Mars Global Surveyor image shows what mission specialists think may be a delta  a fan-shaped network of channels and sediments where a river once flowed into a larger body of water, in this case a lake filling a crater in the southern highlands.
A computer-generated view of the Martian north polar region shows the extent of what may have been an ancient ocean covering much of the northern lowlands.
Proponents point to features such as the terraced   beaches   shown in one image, which could conceivably have been left behind as a lake or ocean evaporated and the shoreline receded.
But belief in this ice-free corridor began to crumble when paleoecologist Glen MacDonald demonstrated that some of the most important radiocarbon dates used to support the existence of an ice-free corridor were incorrect.
They designed an experimental strategy for a group of teachers in Virginia and worked with 40 practicing teachers over several years.
The seed has an outer coating that surrounds the genetic material of the new plant, and inside this covering is a concentrated supply of nutrients.
In the seventeenth century, the trading activities of the Dutch East India Company resulted in vast quantities of decorated Chinese porcelain being brought to Europe, which stimulated and influenced the work of a wide variety of wares, notably Delft.
Population growth generated an expansion of small-scale manufacturing, particularly of handicrafts, textiles, and metal production in England, Flanders, parts of northern Italy, the southwestern German states, and parts of Spain.
At mid-century, an Antwerp financier only slightly exaggerated when he claimed,   0ne can no more trade without bills of exchange than sail without water."
Moreover an increased credit supply was generated by investments and loans by bankers and wealthy merchants to states and by joint-stock partnerships  an English innovation (the first major company began in 1600).
The arms could be held away from the body and carry separate items in their hands; there is no back pillar.
If the artificial Sun remained stationary, the birds would shift their direction with respect to it at a rate of about 15 degrees per hour, the Sun's rate of movement across the sky.
Apparently, the birds were assuming that the "Sun" they saw was moving at that rate.
What about birds that migrate at night?
The hypothesis that begging calls have evolved properties that reduce their potential for attracting predators yields a prediction: baby birds of species that experience high rates of nest predation should produce softer begging signals of higher frequency than nestlings of other species less often victimized by nest predators.
One possibility is that a noisy baby bird provides accurate signals of its real hunger and good health, making it worthwhile for the listening parent to give it food in a nest where several other offspring are usually available to be fed.
The answer lies apparently not in the increased energy costs of exaggerated begging  such energy costs are small relative to the potential gain in calories  but rather in the damage that any successful cheater would do to its siblings, which share genes with one another.
In many instances, spectators in the era before recorded sound experienced elaborate aural presentations alongside movies' visual images, from the Japanese benshi (narrators) crafting multivoiced dialogue narratives to original musical compositions performed by symphony-size orchestras in Europe and the United States.
For centuries, the annual floods of the Nile, Tigris, and Euphrates, for example, have brought fertile silts and water to the inhabitants of their lower valleys.
The filling of the Ataturk and other dams in Turkey has drastically reduced flows in the Euphrates, with potentially serious consequences for Syria and Iraq.
Endogenous rivers often do not reach the sea but drain into inland basins, where the water evaporates or is lost in the ground.
The water-saturated rock or sediment is known as an "aquifer".
Because they are porous, sedimentary rocks, such as sandstones and conglomerates, are important potential sources of groundwater.
These aquifers became saturated more than 10,000 years ago and are no longer being recharged.
The rate of movement may be very slow: in the Indus plain, the movement of saline (salty) groundwaters has still not reached equilibrium after 70 years of being tapped.
Instrumental ties are social links formed when we cooperate with other people to achieve some goal.
More often, we simply cooperate with others to reach some end without endowing the relationship with any larger significance.
Normally, the constantly changing levels of an animal's activity  sleeping, feeding, moving, reproducing, metabolizing, and producing enzymes and hormones, for example  are well coordinated with environmental rhythms, but the key question is whether the animal's schedule is driven by external cues, such as sunrise or sunset, or is instead dependent somehow on internal timers that themselves generate the observed biological rhythms.
Typically, the animal's daily internally generated cycle of activity continues without change.
Often the rapid and diffuse movements of the infant make it difficult to get an accurate record of the number of responses.
Film analysis of the infant's responses, heart and respiration rate monitors, and nonnutritive sucking devices are used as effective tools in understanding infant perception.
Advertisers sometimes offset or counterbalance an exaggerated claim with a disclaimer  a qualification or condition on the claim.
This view is inaccurate, and the reason proves to be important.
Inequalities of wealth and rank certainly exist, and have probably existed in most pastoralist societies, but except in periods of military conquest, they are normally too slight to generate the stable, hereditary hierarchies that are usually implied by the use of the term class.
Accomplishing this feat requires adaptations both to generate heat in the turtle  s body and to keep it from escaping into the surrounding waters.
Leatherbacks apparently do not generate internal heat the way we do, or the way birds do, as a by-product of cellular metabolism.
Leatherbacks do not have blubber, but they do have a reptilian equivalent: thick, oil-saturated skin, with a layer of fibrous, fatty tissue just beneath it.
The rates of extinction happening today are as great as the rates during these mass extinctions.
What could cause such high rates of extinction?
American paleontologists David Raup and John Sepkoski, who have studied extinction rates in a number of fossil groups, suggest that episodes of increased extinction have recurred periodically, approximately every 26 million years since the mid-Cretaceous period.
An asteroid of this size would be expected to leave an immense crater, even if the asteroid itself was disintegrated by the impact.
Also, large blocks thrown aside by the impact would form secondary craters surrounding the main crater.
To date, several such secondary craters have been found along Mexico  s Yucatan Peninsula, and heat-shocked quartz has been found both in Mexico and in Haiti.
Glaciers are sometimes classified by temperature as faster-flowing temperate glaciers or as slower-flowing polar glaciers.
It is a monumental scientific achievement, and its development illustrates the essential interplay between observation, prediction, and testing required for scientific progress.
Simply stated, a gas molecule can "evaporate" from a planet if it reaches a speed known as the escape velocity.
Consequently, it is more difficult for gases to "evaporate" from them.
Shortly after 1400, shipbuilders began developing a new type of vessel properly designed to operate in rough, open water: the caravel.
It operated by measuring the height of the Sun and the fixed stars: by calculating the angles created by these points, it determined the degree of latitude at which one stood (The problem of determining longitude, though, was not solved until the eighteenth century.)
Western Europeans had also developed and put into use the magnetic compass, which helped when clouds obliterated both the Sun and the stars.
Certain butterflies move into spots of sunlight that have penetrated to the forest floor and display by opening and closing their beautifully patterned wings in the bright spotlights.
In vertebrates, the immune system provides a multiple defense against internal parasites.
In 1950, myxoma virus, a parasite that affects rabbits, was deliberately introduced into Australia to control the rabbit population.
In the first case, the plants provide the bacteria with carbohydrates and other organic compounds, and the bacteria have enzymes that act as catalysts that eventually add nitrogen to the soil, enriching it.
All exhibited moderate growth rates in the course of the century (Denmark the highest and Sweden the lowest), but all more than doubled in population by 1900.
In both 1850 and 1914, the Scandinavian countries had the highest literacy rates in Europe, or in the world, and the Netherlands was well above the European average.
When researchers measured the heart rate, muscle tension and skin conductance of people before, during and after yawning, they did detect some changes in skin conductance following yawning, indicating a slight increase in physiological activity.
Another experiment demonstrated that physical exercise, which was sufficiently vigorous to double the rate of breathing, had no effect on the frequency of yawning.
The heavier negatively charged ice pellets are left to concentrate in the center.
Areas rapidly incorporated into the empire were not long affected by the military.
The ecologist is concerned primarily with the quantities of matter and energy that pass through a given ecosystem, and with the rates at which they do so.
In the middle of the nineteenth century, Louis Agassiz, one of the first scientists to study glaciers, immigrated to the United States from Switzerland and became a professor at Harvard University, where he continued his studies in geology and other sciences.
Eventually, Agassiz and others convinced geologists and the general public that a great continental glaciation had extended the polar ice caps far into regions that now enjoy temperate climates.
We now know the age of the glaciation accurately from radiometric dating of the carbon-14 in logs buried in the drift.
During glaciations, the lighter oxygen-16 has a greater tendency to evaporate from the ocean surface than the heavier oxygen-18 does.
During periods when commodity prices were high, the rate of westward migration increased spectacularly.
As a result, many Americans were an inveterately restless, rootless, and ambitious people.
In addition, there were other immigrants who migrated west in search of new homes, material success, and better lives.
The universal global warming at the end of the Ice Age had dramatic effects on temperate regions of Asia, Europe, and North America.
At the end of the Ice Age, no more than a few thousand foragers lived along the eastern Mediterranean coast, in the Jordan and Euphrates valleys.
Some local areas, like the Jordan River valley, the middle Euphrates valley, and some Zagros valleys, were more densely populated than elsewhere.
Thanks to extremely fine-grained excavation and extensive use of flotation methods (through which seeds are recovered from soil samples), we know a great deal about the foraging practices of the inhabitants of Abu Hureyra in Syria's Euphrates valley.
They were no longer a series of small bands but lived in a large community with more elaborate social organization, probably grouped into clans of people of common descent.
Both of these conditions are often found on the ocean floors, where shelled invertebrates (organisms without spines) flourish and are covered by the continuous rain of sedimentary particles.
Indeed, unaltered shells of marine invertebrates are known from deposits over 100 million years old.
Replacement can be a marvelously precise process, so that details of shell ornamentation, tree rings in wood, and delicate structures in bone are accurately preserved.
Insects and even small invertebrates have been found preserved in the hardened resins of conifers and certain other trees.
In the 1990s enough electricity to meet about half the needs of San Francisco was being generated there.
Eighteen countries now generate electricity using geothermal heat.
The fact that some societies domesticated animals and plants, discovered the use of metal tools, became literate, and developed a state should not make us forget that others developed pastoralism or horticulture (vegetable gardening) but remained illiterate and at low levels of productivity; a few entered the modern period as hunting and gathering societies.
Nutrient-rich water is brought to the wetlands during each high tide, making a high rate of food production possible.
Spartina establishes itself on substrates ranging from sand and silt to gravel and cobble and is tolerant of salinities ranging from that of near freshwater (0.05 percent) to that of salt water (3.5 percent).
Once established, a stand of Spartina begins to trap sediment, changing the substrate elevation, and eventually the stand evolves into a high marsh system where Spartina is gradually displaced by higher-elevation, brackish-water species.
Scientific experiments made by photographers such as Eadweard Muybridge (1830-1904) and Etienne-Jules Marey (1830-1904) demonstrated that the movements of both humans and animals differed widely from the way they had been traditionally represented in art.
Forty-three windmills powered the drainage pumps so that they were able to lease the reclamation to farmers as early as 1612, with the investors receiving annual leasing payments at an interest rate of 17 percent.
Third, is it possible to interpret accurately the subject matter of ancient rock art, bring to bear all available archaeological techniques and the knowledge of present-day Aboriginal informants?
Indeed, sites with engravings of geometric shapes are also to be found on the island of Tasmania, which was separated from the mainland of the continent some 10,000 years ago.
The residence time is the average length of time that any particular molecule of water remains in the lake, and it is calculated by dividing the volume of water in the lake by the rate at which water leaves the lake.
It depends on the rate at which water enters the lake, and that depends on the rainfall and the evaporation rate.
In the period 1970 to 1986, rainfall in the area decreased from 1,000 millimeters to 650 millimeters per annum, while above-average temperatures speeded up the evapotranspiration rate (the rate at which water is lost to the atmosphere through evaporation and the processes of plant life).
The slowing down of water renewal leads to a chain of further consequences; it causes dissolved chemicals to become increasingly concentrated, and this, in turn, has a marked effect on all living things in the lake.
It subconsciously adjusts breathing rate and depth in order to regulate the levels of carbon dioxide (CO2) and oxygen (O2), and the acid-base ratio in the blood.
During NREM (the phase of sleep in which there is no rapid eye movement) breathing becomes deeper and more regular, but there is also a decrease in the breathing rate, resulting in less air being exchanged overall.
The surface of Mars shows a wide range of geologic features, including huge volcanoes-the largest known in the solar system-and extensive impact cratering.
Scientists have no direct evidence for recent or ongoing eruptions, but if these volcanoes were active as recently as 100 million, years ago (an estimate of the time of last "eruption based on the extent of impact cratering on their slopes), some of them may still be at least intermittently active.
Another prominent feature of Mars's surface is cratering.
The Mariner spacecraft found that the surface of Mars, as well as that of its two moons, is pitted with impact craters formed by meteoroids falling in from space.
As on our Moon, the smaller craters are often filled with surface matter-mostly dust-confirming that Mars is a dry desert world.
However, Martian craters get filled in considerably faster than their lunar counterparts.
On the Moon, ancient craters less than 100 meters across (corresponding to depths of about 20 meters) have been obliterated, primarily by meteoritic erosion.
On Mars, there are relatively few craters less than 5 kilometers in diameter.
The Martian atmosphere is an efficient erosive agent, with Martian winds transporting dust from place to place and erasing surface features much faster than meteoritic impacts alone can obliterate them.
As on the Moon, the extent of large impact cratering (i.e.
craters too big to have been filled in by erosion since they were formed) serves as an age indicator for the Martian surface.
The detailed appearance of Martian impact craters provides an important piece of information about conditions just below the planet's surface.
Martian craters are surrounded by ejecta (debris formed as a result of an impact) that looks quite different from its lunar counterparts.
A comparison of the Copernicus crater on the Moon with the (fairly typical) crater Yuty on Mars demonstrates the differences.
The ejecta surrounding the lunar crater is just what one would expect from an explosion ejecting a large volume of dust, soil, and boulders.However, the ejecta on Mars gives the distinct impression of a liquid that has splashed or flowed out of crater.
Geologists think that this fluidized ejecta crater indicates that a layer of permafrost, or water ice, lies just a few meters under the surface.
These have adapted to the environment by the development of long taproots that penetrate downward until they approach the assured water supply provided by groundwater.
Escape involves such actions as aestivation, a condition of prolonged dormancy, or torpor, during which animals reduce their metabolic rate and body temperature during the hot season or during very dry spells.
The earliest of the city states of the ancient Near East appeared at the southern end of the Mesopotamian plain, the area between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers in what is now Iraq.
Early in the Uruk period, the use of undecorated utilitarian pottery was probably the result of specialized mass production.
From the first appearance of cylinder seals, the carved scenes could be highly elaborate and refined, indicating the work of specialist stone-cutters.
Careful studies have demonstrated, however, that this not the case.
Lower birth rates, low juvenile suvivorship, and low growth rates follow, so there is a conrresponding decline in hare abundance.
However, the cycle was retained if either of the factors was allowed to operate alone: if predators were excluded but food was not added (food effect alone), or if food was added in the presence of predators (predator effect alone).
Thus, both factors can affect the cycle, which, in practice, seems to be generated by the conjunction of the two factors.
In the intergranular spaces of rocks, however, fluid must flow around and between grains in a tortuous path; this winding path causes a resistance to flow.The rate at which the flowing water overcomes this resistance is related to the permeability of rock.
The newly domesticated animals behaved better, were easier to control, and may have enjoyed a higher birth rate, which in turn yielded greater milk supplies.
The widespread distribution of pastoral sites of this period suggests that the Saharans ranged their herds over widely separated summer and winter grazing grounds. 
About 3500 B.C., climatic conditions again deteriorated.
The effects of such competition are graphically demonstrated when all the animals or all the plants in an ecosystem come into competition, as happened 2 million years ago at the end of the Pliocene, when North and South America became joined by the Isthmus of Panama.
In the case of animals it is usually food; in the case of forest plants it may be light; in the case of substrate inhabitants it may be space, as in many shallow-water bottom-dwelling marine organisms.
From this primitive start, the electric industry grew during the final 20 years of the nineteenth century at a rate seldom if ever exceeded by any technology.
By the early twentieth century, the question about the rate of evolution had been answered in favor of gradualism to most biologists   satisfaction.
These episodes of rapid evolution are separated by relatively long static spans during which a species may hardly change at all.
The question about the rate of evolution must now be turned around: does evolution ever proceed gradually, or does it always occur in short bursts?
These early versions were rudimentary, inaccurate, and prone to breakdown. 
Evolutionary biologists believe that speciation, the formation of a new species, often begins when some kind of physical barrier arises and divides a population of a single species into separate subpopulations.
In general, the subpopulations of most species are separated from each other by some measurable distance.
The change separated populations of insects now living along opposite shore, completely cutting off gene flow between them.
When the glaciers retreated, the separated populations of plants and animals came into contact again.
Some groups that had descended from the same parent population were no longer reproductively compatible  they had evolved into separate species.
Elkind argues that academic success is largely dependent upon factors out of parents   control, such as inherited abilities and a child  s rate of maturation.
More moderate conditions support moist forests. 
These soils usually contain large amounts of clay and easily become water-saturated.
Are cannot penetrate between the soil particles, making the soil oxygen-poor.
The rate at which a site is colonized by plants depends on both the rate at which individual organisms (seeds, spores, immature or mature individuals) arrive at the site and their success at becoming established and surviving.
For a given rate of invasion, colonization of a moist, fertile site is likely to be much more rapid than that of a dry, infertile site because of poor survival on the latter.
Both the rate of invasion and the rate of extinction vary greatly among different plant species.
Pioneer species--- those that occur only in the earliest stages of colonization--- tend to have high rates of invasion because they produce very large numbers of reproductive propagules (seeds, spores, and so on) and because they have an efficient means of dispersal (normally, wind).
Alternative strategies have evolved in some plants, such as those that produce fewer but larger seeds that are dispersed to suitable sites by birds or small mammals or those that produce long-lived seeds.
This is particularly important for species that colonize an environment where there is no existing vegetation to ameliorate climatic extremes and in which there maybe great climatic diversity.
Variation in rates of invasion and growth plays an important role in determining patterns of succession, especially secondary succession.
Such species generally grow rapidly and quickly dominate new sites, excluding other species with lower invasion and growth rates.
The first community that occupies a disturbed area therefore may be composed of species with the highest rate of invasion, whereas the community of the subsequent stage may consist of plants with similar survival rates but lower invasion rates.
These families were pensioned off(given a sum of money to live on) or simply had their revenues taken away or restricted; their sons were enticed away to schools for district officers, later to be posted in some faraway  province; and the old patron-client relations that had bound together local societies simply disintegrated.
They concentrated their studies on a thirteen-hectare tract of tropical dry forest that contained numerous nests of nine species of stingless bees.
Hubbell and Johnson mapped the nests of five of the nine species of stingless bees accurately, and the nests of four of these species were distributed regularly.
When the two bees hit the ground, they separated, faced off, and performed another aerial display.
While some of these urban centers were identified with a particular economic function, such as proximity to gold or iron deposits or a strategic location on a major trade route, others served primarily as administrative centers or the site of temples for the official cult or other ritual observances.
In some cases, the physical division within the first cities reflected the strict hierarchical character of the society as a whole, with a royal palace surrounded by an imposing wall and separate from the remainder of the urban population.
Because eastern plows could not penetrate the densely tangled roots of prairie grass, the earliest settlers erected farms along the boundary separating the forest from the prairie.
It is now widely believed that at least some species of dinosaurs had a metabolic rate high enough for them to be endotherms (animals that maintain a relatively consistent body temperature by generating heat internally).
They believed that this impact generated a thick cloud of dust that enveloped Earth, shutting out much of the incoming solar radiation and reducing plant photosynthesis to very low levels.
Before A.D. 900, manuscripts of the Koran (the book containing the teachings of the Islamic religion) seem to have been the most common type of book produced and decorated, but after that date a wide range of books were produced for a broad spectrum of patrons.
These continued to include, of course, manuscripts of the Koran, which every Muslim wanted to read, but scientific works, histories, romances, and epic and lyric poetry were also copied in fine handwriting and decorated with beautiful illustrations.
Both burned coal to produce steam, which was then used to operate a pump.
After a series of observations, Watt saw that the Newcomen  s waste of energy could be reduced by adding a separate condenser.
These plants usually occur where ants are abundant, most in the tropics but some in temperate areas.
More important than the amount of time Herodotus computed, which turns out to be trivial compared with the age of Earth, was the notion that one could estimate ages of geologic features by determining rates of the processes responsible for such features, and then assuming the rates to be roughly constant over time.
After Hutton, geologists tried to determine rates of sedimentation so as to estimate the age of Earth from the total length of the sedimentary, or stratigraphic, record.
Their high-protein, low-carbohydrate diets result in low body-fat levels, which are commonly associated with low fertility in women.
So even after reaching an area  s carrying capacity, Holocene human populations probably continued to grow in food-rich regions, overshooting the ability of the territory to feed the population, again within the context of the same subsistence strategy.
The impulse to produce more food to feed a growing population was satisfied in some areas by the development of more-complex subsistence strategies involving intensive labor and requiring more cooperation and greater coordination among the increasing numbers of people.
Considering that seasonal succession is most often and clearly seen in temperate seas, which have a marked change in temperature during a year, temperature has been suggested as a cause.
This toxin can be concentrated in such filter-feeding organisms as clams and mussels, rendering them toxic to humans.
Other organic compounds that may inhibit or promote various species include amino acids, carbohydrates, and fatty acids.
Although it is suspected that these organic metabolites may have an important role in species succession and it has been demonstrated in the laboratory that phytoplankton species vary both in their ability to produce necessary vitamins and in their requirements for such in order to grow, evidence is still inadequate as to their real role in the sea.
Many copepods (small, herbivorous crustaceans) and invertebrate larvae pick out selected phytoplankton species from mixed groups, changing the species composition.
As a result, the soil is aerated broken up, fertilized, and brought to the surface, hastening soil development. 
If natural selection was the explanation, then there should be different survival rates for dark- and light-colored moths.
Clearly some environmental factor was responsible for the greater survival rates of dark moths.
The action of natural selection in producing a small but highly significant step of evolution was seemingly demonstrated, with birds as the selecting force.
Anaximander, observing the motions of the heavens around the polestar, was probably the first of the Greek philosophers to picture the sky as sphere completely surrounding Earth--an idea that, elaborated upon later, would prevail until the advent of the Scientific Revolution in the seventeenth century. 
It is possible for anyone to create   ideas   about the nature and structure of the universe, for instance, and many times these ideas can be so consistent and elaborately structured, or just so apparently obvious, that they can be persuasive to many people.
In a fragmented landscape where many populations and habitats are isolated from others, translocations can play an effective role in conservation strategies; they can increase the number of existing populations or increase the size, genetic diversity, and demographic balance of a small population, consequently increasing its chances of survival. 
Reviewing translocation of amphibians and reptiles, researchers C.Kenneth Dodd and Richard A. Siegel concluded that most projects have not demonstrated success as conservation techniques and should not be advocated as though they were acceptable management and mitigation practices.
Such buildings, however, were viewed in a category separate from   fine   architecture, and in fact were often designed by engineers and builders rather than architects.
Indeed, in this influential book Toward a New Architecture, the Swiss architect Le Corbusier illustrated his text with photographs of American factories and grain storage silos, as well as ships, airplanes, and other industrial objects.
The ways in which new technology transformed architectural design are dramatically illustrated through the evolution of the high-rise office building.
Resolving power is the ability of an optical instrument to show two objects as separate.
Furthermore, they have been deliberately introduced throughout the continent.
Furthermore, the application of pesticides (the alternative to growing Bt plants) has been demonstrated to cause widespread harm to nontarget insects.
Perhaps the most serious concern about the transgenic crop plants currently in use is that they encourage farmers to move farther away from sustainable agricultural farming practices, meaning ones that allow natural resources to continually regenerate over the long run.
Farmers who use Bt transgenics may not feel that they need to follow through with integrated pest-management practices that use beneficial insects and timely applications of pesticides to control insect pests.
Scholars have detected some 6,000 separate hieroglyphic characters in use over the history of Egyptian writing, but it appears that never more than a thousand were in use during any one period.
Between 80 and 85 million years ago, Gondwanaland, a giant continent made up of what today is Africa, Antarctica, Australia, and South America, broke up, thus causing what is now New Zealand to become separated from the larger landmass.
After the separation, any creature unable to cross a considerable distance of ocean could not migrate to New Zealand.
They may have had relatively low reproductive rates; apparently, they usually laid only one egg at a time.
To make Montana  s low-altitude ponderosa pine forest as an example, historical records, plus counts of annual tree rings and datable fire scars on tree stumps, demonstrated that a ponderosa pine forest experiences a lightning-lit fire about once a decade under natural conditions (i.e.., before fire suppression began around 1910 and became effective after 1945).
However, loggers concentrated on removing those big, old, valuable, fire-resistant ponderosa pines, while fire suppression for decades let the understory fill up with Douglas fir saplings that would in turn become valuable when full-grown.
The tropics contain a larger surface area of land than higher latitudes  a fact that is not always evident when we examine commonly used projections of Earth's curved surface, since this tends to exaggerate the areas of land in the higher latitudes-and some biogeographers regard the differences in diversity as a reflection of this effect But an analysis of the data by biologist Klaus Rohde does not support this explanation.
Forests in temperate lands often have just two canopy layers, so they have much less complex architecture.
The principal elements in behavioral thermoregulation are basking (heliothermy), heat exchange with substrates such as rock or earth (thigmothermy)  and diurnal and annual avoidance behaviors, which include moving to shelter during the day for cooling and hibernating or estivating (reducing activity during cold or hot weather, respectively).
A positive side effect of this approach is that it accelerates the digestion of the prey consumed overnight, thus also accelerating growth.
Species whose habitat in the temperate latitudes are confronted by lethal low temperatures in winter, while species dwelling in arid and semi-arid regions are exposed to long dry, hot periods in summer.
Men make sand paintings that are accurate copies of paintings from the past.
The paintings generally illustrate ideas and events from the life of a mythical hero, who, after being healed by the gods, gave gifts of songs and paintings.
Working from memory, the artists re-create the traditional form of the image as accurately as possible.
But as the Sun  s energy output slowly increased over time, the temperature at the surface would eventually have risen above 374  C. Above this temperature, no matter what the atmospheric pressure, Venus   oceans would have begun to evaporate, and the added water vapor in the atmosphere would have increased the greenhouse effect.
This would have made the temperature even higher and caused the oceans to evaporate faster, producing more water vapor.
This liberated carbon dioxide formed the thick atmosphere of present-day Venus.
With all the water vapor gone, the greenhouse effect would no longer have accelerated.
With its gene pool isolated, a separate population can follow its own evolutionary course.
Similarly, a creeping glacier may gradually divide a population, or a land bridge such as the Isthmus of Panama may form and separate the marine life in the ocean waters on either side.
For example, the Grand Canyon, in the southwestern United States, separates the range of the white-tailed antelope squirrel from that of the closely related Harris' antelope squirrel.
Later, a few individuals of this new species may have been blown by storms to a neighboring island Isolated on this second island, the second founder population could have evolved into a second new species, which could later recolonize the island from which its founding population emigrated.
When the bolide struck, this energy was released and generated a huge shock wave that leveled everything for thousands of kilometers around the impact and caused most of the landscape to burst into flames.
The bolide struck an area of the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico known as Chicxulub, excavating a crater 15-20 kilometers deep and at least 170 kilometers in diameter.
Callisto has not fully differentiated, meaning separated into layers of different density materials.
Like our Moon  s highlands, the surface of Callisto is covered with impact craters.
The survival of these craters tells us that an icy object can form and retain impact craters in its surface.
Ganymede, another of Jupiter's satellites and the largest in our solar system, is also cratered, but less so than Callisto.
About one-quarter of its surface seems to be as old and heavily cratered; the rest formed more recently, as we can tell by the sparse covering of impact craters as well as the relative freshness of the craters.
Some features formed when the crust cracked, flooding many of the craters with water from the interior.
In some places older impact craters were split and pulled apart.
Even before Alexander  s time, a life spent in the service of their city-state no longer seemed ideal to Greeks The Athenian philosopher Socrates (470-399 B.C.)
It is now well established that petroleum migrates through aquifers and can become trapped in reservoirs.
When oil and gas are squeezed out of the shale in which they originated and enter a body of sandstone or limestone somewhere above, they migrate readily because sandstones (consisting of quartz grains) and limestones (consisting of carbonate minerals) are much more permeable than any shale.
Unlike coal, the volume of which can be accurately estimated, the volume of undiscovered oil can only be guessed at.
It is interesting that temperate seagrass beds accumulate sediments from sources outside the beds, whereas tropical seagrass beds derive most of their sediments from within.
The high rate of metabolism (the processing of energy for survival) of the microorganisms in the sediments causes sediments to be anaerobic (without oxygen) below the first few millimeters.
According to ecologist J. W. Kenworthy, anaerobic processes of the microorganisms in the sediment are an important mechanism for regenerating and recycling nutrients and carbon, ensuring the high rates of productivity  that is, the amount of organic material produced-that are measured in those beds.
In contrast to other productivity in the ocean, which is confined to various species of algae and bacteria dependent on nutrient concentrations in the water column, seagrasses are rooted plants that absorb nutrients from the sediment or substrate.
For example, water depth and turbidity (density of particles in the water) together or separately control the amount of light available to the plants and the depth to which the seagrasses may extend.
The effect of desiccation is often difficult to separate from the effect of temperature.
Guthrie has also demonstrated that the landscape must have been subject to intense and continuous winds, especially in winter.
For the relatively few dominant tree species that make up temperate forests, where there are many individuals of the same species within pollen range, this is quite a safe gamble.
In a similar way, trees in temperate forests that are insect pollinated tend to grow as solitary, widely spread individuals.
Filtering seawater for its particulate nutritional content can be an energetically demanding method of feeding, particularly when the current of water to be filtered has to be generated by the organism itself, as is the case for all planktonic animals.
Another solution for such animals is to forage in particular layers of water where the particles may be more concentrated.
The individual traveling merchant who alone handled virtually all aspects of exchange evolved into an operation invoh/ing three separate types of merchants: the sedentary merchant who ran the "home office," financing and organizing the firm  s entire export-import trade; the carriers who transported goods by land and sea; and the company agents resident in cities abroad who, on the advice of the home office, looked after sales and procurements.
The ventures of the German Hanseatic League illustrate these advancements.
A good illustration of this occurred after sea otters were eliminated from some Pacific kelp (seaweed) bed ecosystems: the kelp beds were practically obliterated too because in the absence of sea otter predation, sea urchin populations exploded and consumed most of the kelp and other macroalgae.
The flooding of Britain with red-gloss pottery form Gaul (modern-day France), decorated with scenes from Classical mythology, probably brought many into contact with the styles and artistic concepts of the Greco-Roman world for the first time, whether or not the symbolism was understood.
The Fishbourne villa, built in the third quarter of the first century A.D., probably for the native client king Cogidubnus, amply illustrates his Roman pretensions.
Although exceptional, this demonstrates how new cultural symbols bound provincials to the identify of the Roman world. 
They do best when the relative humidity in their nest is above 96 percent and the temperature is fairly high, an optimum of about 79  F for temperate zone species and about 86  F for tropical species.
The termites saturate the atmosphere of the nest, bringing it to about 100 percent relative humidity, by carrying water up from the soil.
The drill holes passed through more than a thousand meters of coral before reaching the rock substratum of the ocean floor, and indicated that the coral had been growing upward for tens of millions of years as Earth's crust subsided at a rate of between 15 and 51 meters per million years.
At present they are coming under a variety of threats, of which two of the most important are dredging and the effects of increased siltation brought about by accelerated erosion from neighboring land areas.
The problem with inferring diets from coprolites is the difficulty in accurately associating a particular coprolite with a specific dinosaur. 
Overall, the heat island is strongest (1) at night when compensating sunlight is absent; (2) during the winter, when nights are longer and there is more heat generated in the city; and (3) when the region is dominated by a high-pressure area with light winds, clear skies, and less humid air.
If there are major industrial areas along the outskirts, pollutants are carried into the heat of town, where they tend to concentrate.
