For example, one sign of this condition is the appearance of the comic vision, since comedy requires sufficient detachment to view some deviations from social norms as ridiculous rather than as serious threats to the welfare of the entire group.
For example, some early societies ceased to consider certain rites essential to their well-being and abandoned them, nevertheless, they retained as parts of their oral tradition the myths that had grown up around the rites and admired them for their artistic qualities rather than for their religious usefulness. 
There is little doubt, however, that desertification in most areas results primarily from human activities rather than natural processes.
Exhibitors, however, wanted to maximize their profits, which they could do more readily by projecting a handful of films to hundreds of customers at a time (rather than one at a time) and by charging 25 to 50 cents admission.
And when game moved out of the lowlands in early spring, the expedition decided to return east rather than face possible starvation.
As Patrick Kirch, an American anthropologist, points out, rather than being brought by rafting South Americans, sweet potatoes might just have easily been brought back by returning Polynesian navigators who could have reached the west coast of South America.
At the same time, operators of the first printing presses run by steam rather than by hand found it possible to produce a thousand pages in an hour rather than thirty.
Further observation revealed the tendency of teachers to evaluate events rather than review the contributory factors in a considered manner by, in effect, standing outside the situation. 
The answer lies apparently not in the increased energy costs of exaggerated begging  such energy costs are small relative to the potential gain in calories  but rather in the damage that any successful cheater would do to its siblings, which share genes with one another.
Instrumental ties predominate in secondary groups; we perceive people as means to ends rather than as ends in their own right.
A shorter drought in which they exhausted their stored food supplies might already have gotten them in deep trouble, because growing crops required rain rather than reservoirs.
Some chameleon species can change from a rather dull appearance to a full riot of carnival colors in seconds.
The temperature increased dramatically in a short period of time (years rather than centuries), allowing for a growth of the hunting-gathering population due to the abundance of resources.
Because the medium was so prolific, in the sense that it was possible to produce a multitude of images very cheaply, it was soon treated as the poor relation of fine art, rather than its destined successor.
Study of the textures of chondrules confirms that they cooled rather quickly, in times measured in minutes or hours, so the heating events that formed them must have been localized.
To compare the compositions of a meteorite and the Sun, it is necessary that we use ratios of elements rather than simply the abundances of atoms.
In order to increase production on existing land, the peasants made more use of crop rotation and, in particular, began to apply animal waste to the soil regularly, rather than leaving the fertilization process up to the grazing livestock.
Then exchanges with the atmosphere are calculated by finding the difference between the gains from rain, as measured (rather roughly) by rain gauges, and the losses by evaporation, measured with models that correct for the other sources of water loss.
It is a rather shallow bowl that was crudely made in a mold; hence, in only a limited number of standard sizes.
Earth  s surface is not made up of a single sheet of rock that forms a crust but rather a number of   tectonic plates   that fit closely, like the pieces of a giant jigsaw puzzle.
In general, the moose population is controlled by food availability, disease, and other factors rather than by wolves.
Thus, the presence of many well-marked rubs is indicative of older, higher-status males being in the general vicinity rather than simply being a crude measure of relative deer abundance in a given area.
Savannas typically experience a rather prolonged dry season.
One theory behind savanna formation is that wet forest species are unable to withstand the dry season, and thus a savanna, rather than a rain forest, is favored on the site.
The principal insect enemies of the North American morning glory feed mainly on its flowers or fruits rather than its leaves.
The organization of such societies could be rather simple, revolving around age and gender categories.
These more vulnerable members of society could safely stay in a fixed village rather than be forced regularly to move great distances as part of a nomadic existence, with its greater risk of accidents and trauma.
Furthermore, temperature changes rather slowly in seawater, and the replacement of dominant species often is much more rapid.
He believed, though, that the shape of Earth was that of a cylinder rather than the sphere that later Greek philosophers would conjecture.
Anaximenes may have also been the first to study rainbows and speculate upon their natural rather than supernatural cause. 
Such buildings, however, were viewed in a category separate from   fine   architecture, and in fact were often designed by engineers and builders rather than architects.
The first steps toward change were taken by Solon in 594 B.C., when he broke the aristocracy  s stranglehold on elected offices by establishing wear rather than birth as the basis of office holding, abolishing the economic obligations of ordinary Athenians to the aristocracy, and allowing the assembly (of which all citizens were equal members) to overrule the decisions of local courts in certain cases.
The Peisistratids, as the succession of tyrants were called (after the founder of the dynasty, Peisistratos), strengthened Athenian central administration at the expense of the aristocracy by appointing judges throughout the region, producing Athens' first national coinage, and adding and embellishing festivals that tended to focus attention on Athens rather than on local villages of the surrounding region.
National politics rather than local or deme politics became the focal point.
Extensive long-distance trade was a consequence rather than a cause of complex societies.
Ganymede is not a dead world, but rather a place of continuing geological activity powered by an internal heat source.
Their worship was linked to the rituals connected with one  s progress through life  birth, marriage, and death   and with invoking protection against danger, making prophecies, and promoting healing, rather than to any code of behavior.
was the first person in Greece to propose a morality based on individual conscience rather than the demands of the state, and for this he was accused of not believing in the city  s gods and so corrupting the youth, and he was condemned to death.
When one of Vermeer  s paintings was X-rayed, it did not have any preliminary sketches on the canvas beneath the paint, but rather the complete image drawn in black and white without any trial sketches.
Broad, windswept valleys; glaciated mountains; sparse vegetation; and less moisture created a rather forbidding land mass.
At a much larger scale, baleen whales and whale sharks are also efficient filter-feeders in productive coastal or polar waters, although their filtered particles comprise small animals such as copepods and krill rather than phytoplankton.
In the deeper waters of the oceans, there is a much greater tendency for animals to await the arrival of food particles or prey rather than to search them out actively (thus minimizing energy expenditure).
Its surface forms an uneven and rather rough platform around the coast, about the level of low water, and its outer edge slopes downwards into the sea.
At one time, these were thought to represent embryonic animals, suggesting that this small dinosaur gave birth to live young rather than laying eggs.
Some paleontologists have argued that these represent stream accumulations rather than final meals.
Among them were a large number of nonconformists whose religious principles encouraged thrift and industry rather than luxurious living and who tended to pour their profits back into their business, thus providing the basis for continued expansion.
