Late-lying snow reduces the effective growing season to the point where seedlings cannot establish themselves.
Water absorption is greatly reduced; consequently runoff is increased, resulting in accelerated erosion rates.
The incentive of the farmers who wish to conserve water is reduced by their knowledge that many of their neighbors are profiting by using great amounts of water, and in the process are drawing down the entire region  s water supplies.
Once a redwood forest matures, for example, the kinds of species and the number of individuals growing on the forest floor are reduced.
First, the major predators of deer  wolves, cougar, and lynx  have been greatly reduced in numbers.
The hypothesis that begging calls have evolved properties that reduce their potential for attracting predators yields a prediction: baby birds of species that experience high rates of nest predation should produce softer begging signals of higher frequency than nestlings of other species less often victimized by nest predators.
The filling of the Ataturk and other dams in Turkey has drastically reduced flows in the Euphrates, with potentially serious consequences for Syria and Iraq.
The psychologist Dale Kunkel showed that the practice of host selling reduced children's ability to distinguish between advertising and program material.
The reduced level of photosynthesis led to a massive decline in plant life of all kinds, and this caused massive starvation first of herbivores and subsequently of carnivores.
Movements of the rib cage for breathing are reduced during sleep, making the contractions of the diaphragm more important.
They possess drought-resisting adaptations: loss of water through the leaves is reduced by means of dense hairs covering waxy leaf surfaces, by the closure of pores during the hottest times to reduce water loss, and by the rolling up or shedding of leaves at the beginning of the dry season.
Escape involves such actions as aestivation, a condition of prolonged dormancy, or torpor, during which animals reduce their metabolic rate and body temperature during the hot season or during very dry spells.
the number of signs required had been reduced to 600, and the range of words that could be expressed had widened.
Do increasing numbers of hares lead to overhavesting of plants, which in turn results in reduced hare populations, or do increasing numbers of lynx lead to overhavesting of hares?
Moving water was one of the earliest energy sources to be harnessed to reduce the workload of people and animals.
For instance, compared with children who did not participate in early intervention programs, participants in various programs showed gains in emotional or cognitive development, better educational outcomes, increased economic self-sufficiency, reduced level of criminal activity, and improved health-related behaviors.
Success in colonization depends to a great extent on there being a site available for colonization---a safe site where disturbance by fire or by cutting down of trees has either removed competing species or reduced levels of competition and other negative interactions to a level at which the invading species can become established.
Over the course of the Fifth Reign (1868---1910), the ties that bound rural people to the aristocracy and local ruling elites were greatly reduced.
The number of flowering plants (angiosperms) was reduced at this time, but they then began to increase dramatically.
After a series of observations, Watt saw that the Newcomen  s waste of energy could be reduced by adding a separate condenser.
This species was once confined to Cousin Island, one of the Seychelles islands, and reduced to 26 individuals.
The decision was taken to translocate individuals to two nearby islands to reduce this risk.
The release site was an area where local hunting had reduced the density of the resident howler population.
Forest and shrubland burning appears to have reduced the prime habitat of many moa species.
The actions of these potential nest predators could have reduced moa populations without leaving much direct evidence.
This damping effect can be significant to the point where just one meter into a seagrass bed the wave motion can be reduced to zero.
This accumulation, in turn, reduces the water movement and the oxygen supply.
Most deciduous wind-pollinated trees (which shed their leaves every fall) produce their pollen in the spring while the branches are bare of leaves to reduce the surrounding surfaces that   compete" with the stigmas (the part of the flower that receives the pollen) for pollen.
In contrast, the food levels in the deeper layers of the ocean are greatly reduced, and the energy constraints on the animals are much more severe To survive at those levels, animals must maximize their energy input, finding and eating whatever potential food source may be present.
Their filtering systems, which reach such a high degree of development in shallow- water species, are greatly reduced.
In the end, despite insightful attempts to detect some general patterns, we may find it very difficult to reduce this topic to a simple, universal truth.
Water vapor condenses onto these particles when the relative humidity is as low as 70 percent, forming haze that greatly reduces visibility.
Because water transportation was the cheapest means of carrying goods to market, canals reduced prices and thus increased consumer demand.
