There it remains, sometimes for long periods, before emerging at the surface again.
But some will remain, clinging to all solid surfaces.
In areas where considerable soil still remains, though, a rigorously enforced program of land protection and cover-crop planting may make it possible to reverse the present deterioration of the surface. 
Even though early exhibitors shaped their film programs by mixing films and other entertainments together in whichever way they thought would be most attractive to audiences or by accompanying them with lectures, their creative control remained limited.
It is projected that the remaining Ogallala water will, by the year 2030, support only 35 to 40 percent of the irrigated acreage in Texas that is supported in 1980.
As soon as the oxygen is gone, decay stops and the remaining organic matter is preserved. 
The rest is far too difficult to extract and has to remain underground. 
A slightly younger fossil formation containing animal remains is the Tommotian formation, named after a locale in Russia.
Only a few organisms especially tolerant of very salty conditions remained.
As evaporation continued, the remaining brine (salt water) became so dense that the calcium sulfate of the hard layer was precipitated.
Why and how these people spread out into central and southern Africa remains a mystery, but archaeologists believe that their iron weapons allowed them to conquer their hunting-gathering opponents, who still used stone implements.
These ideas remain controversial.
The coastal hypothesis has gained increasing support in recent years because the remains of large land animals, such as caribou and brown bears, have been found in southeastern Alaska dating between 10,000 and 12,500 years ago.
When such statues are viewed in isolation, out of their original context and without knowledge of their function, it is easy to criticize them for their rigid attitudes that remained unchanged for three thousand years.
If the artificial Sun remained stationary, the birds would shift their direction with respect to it at a rate of about 15 degrees per hour, the Sun's rate of movement across the sky.
Water does not remain immobile in an aquifer but can seep out at springs or leak into other aquifers.
For instance, some social groups employ shunning (a person can remain in the community, but others are forbidden to interact with the person) as a device to bring into line individuals whose behavior goes beyond that allowed by the particular group.
Properly speaking, tropical rainforests grow in high-rainfall equatorial areas that remain wet or humid all year round.
Making matters worse, most of the Yucatan Peninsula consists of karst, a porous sponge-like limestone terrain where rain runs straight into the ground and where little or no surface water remains available.
However, the larger the terrain used to support a group, the harder it is to exploit that terrain while remaining in one place.
As a result, glaciers create a great variety of landforms that remain long after the surface is released from its icy covering.
An estimated 99.85 percent of the mass of our solar system is contained within the Sun, while the planets collectively make up most of the remaining 0.15 percent.
In fact, neither condition made any difference to the frequency of yawning, which remained constant at about 24 yawns per hour.
A completely different theory holds that yawning assists in the physical development of the lungs early in life, but has no remaining biological function in adults.
Where the army remained stationed, its presence was much more influential.
This then meant that the military had to remain to suppress rebellion and organize government.
Hundreds of tiny plant remains show how the inhabitants exploited nut harvests in nearby pistachio and oak forests.
The empty shell of a snail or clam may be left behind, and if it is sufficiently durable and resistant to dissolution, it may remain basically unchanged for a long period of time.
In such cases, the original composition of the bone or shell remains, but the fossil is made harder and more durable.
The carbon often remains behind as a blackened silhouette.
The probability that actual remains of soft tissue will be preserved is improved if the organism dies in an environment of rapid deposition and oxygen deprivation.
Their remains accumulated on the floor of the lake and were then covered by clay and silt.
The fact that some societies domesticated animals and plants, discovered the use of metal tools, became literate, and developed a state should not make us forget that others developed pastoralism or horticulture (vegetable gardening) but remained illiterate and at low levels of productivity; a few entered the modern period as hunting and gathering societies.
It is anthropologically important to inquire into the conditions that made some societies adopt agriculture while others remained hunter-gatherers or horticulturalists.
The origin of these peculiar glassy spheres remains an enigma.
Dutch peasants were able to remain unaffected by this crisis for a long time because they had specialized in dairy farming industrial crops, and horticulture.
While accepting that this sequence fits the archaeological profile of those sites, which were occupied continuously over many thousands of years a number of writers have warned that the underlying assumption of such a sequence  a development from the simple and the geometric to the complex and naturalistic  obscures the cultural continuities in Aboriginal Australia, in which geometric symbolism remains fundamentally important.
The residence time is the average length of time that any particular molecule of water remains in the lake, and it is calculated by dividing the volume of water in the lake by the rate at which water leaves the lake.
Although the climate remained as unpredictable as ever between one year and   the next, it became much less locally diverse.
Improvements in road construction and sailing had occurred, but shipping heavy freight over land remained expensive, even with the use of rivers and canals wherever possible.
Whenever a word including a syllable in which the sound   sag   was to be written, the sign for   sag" could be used to express that syllable with the remaining syllables of the word expressed by other signs.)
The vast majority of its population remained active in agriculture, even those people living within the city itself.
This has been interpreted as the remains of a workshop where molten metal was scooped up from the channel and poured into molds in the holes.
), there first appeared a type of object that remained characteristic for Mesopotamia throughout its entire history: the cylinder seal.
A volcano remains an active  hot spot   as long as it is over the plume.
Groundwater commonly collects in stream drainages but may remain entirely beneath the surface of dry stream-beds in arid regions.
It has been estimated that Monte Testaccio contains the remains of some 53 million amphorae, in which around 6,000 million liters of oil were imported into the city from overseas, imports into imperial Rome were supported by the full might of the state and were therefore quite exceptional  but the size of the operations at Monte Testaccio, and the productivity and complexity that lay behind them, nonetheless cannot fail to impress.
Many species appear to remain unchanged in the fossil record for millions of years    a situation that seems to be at odds with Darwin  s model of continuous change.
Frequent fire is a factor to which rain forest species seem unable to adapt, although ancient charcoal remains from Amazon forest soils dating prior to the arrival of humans suggest that moist forests also occasionally burn.
A fertile, plowed field is rapidly invaded by a large variety of weeds, whereas a neighboring construction site from which the soil has been compacted or removed to expose a coarse, infertile parent material may remain virtually free of vegetation for many months or even years despite receiving the same input of seeds as the plowed field. 
In some cases, the physical division within the first cities reflected the strict hierarchical character of the society as a whole, with a royal palace surrounded by an imposing wall and separate from the remainder of the urban population.
Wood was in ever-shorter supply, yet it remained tremendously important.
These rocks are then uplifted sometime in the future to form new mountain ranges, which exhibit the sedimentary layers (and the remains of life within those layers) of the earlier episodes of erosion and deposition.
The mean concentration of sulphur dioxide pollution fell from about 300 micrograms per cubic meter in 1970 to less than 50 micrograms per cubic meter in 1975 and has remained fairly constant since then If the spread of the light-colored form of the moth continues at the same speed as the melanic form spread in the last century, soon the melanic form will again be only an occasional resident of the Liverpool area.
Careful habitat management increased this number to over 300 birds, but the single population remained vulnerable to local catastrophic events.
Thus, the light microscope remains a useful tool, especially for studying living cells.
These insects may allow Bt susceptibility to remain in the population.
They are known from a diverse array of remains including eggshells, eggs, a few mummified carcasses, vast numbers of bones, and some older fossilized bone.
While there appears to have been extensive burning on the east side of New Zealand  s South Island, large forest tracts remained in the most southern part of the island.
Because major habitat destruction seems to have occurred after moa populations already were depleted, and because some habitat that could have sheltered moa populations remained, it would seem that other factors were also at work in the extinction of these birds.
At one excavated Maori site, moa remains filled six railway cars.
However, evidence of such diseases is difficult to determine directly from paleoecological or archaeological remains.
While the last of these possible causes remains speculative, define clues exist for the action of the first two causes.
One factor is the direct effect of logging, which often turns a forest into something approximating a huge pile of kindling (wood for burning): the ground in a logged forest may remain covered with branches and treetops, left behind when the valuable trunks are carted away; a dense growth of new vegetation springs up, further increasing the forest  s fuel loads; and the trees logged and removed are of course the biggest and most fire-resistant individuals, leaving behind smaller and more flammable trees.
Hence the fire remains confined to ground and understory.
Frog species that remain exposed to the sun despite high diurnal (daytime) temperatures exhibit some fascinating modifications in the skin structure that function as morphological adaptations.
Conversely, natteijacks in southern Spain remain active during the mild winters common to the region and are instead forced into inactivity during the dry, hot summer season Summer estivation also occurs by burrowing into the ground or hiding in cool, deep rock crevasses to avoid desiccation and lethal ambient temperatures.
Most of it fell back immediately, but some of it remained as dust in the atmosphere for months.
The satellite was bom dead and has remained geologically dead for more than four billion years.
Hence, because oil and water do not mix, water remains fastened to the quartz or carbonate grains, while oil occupies the central parts of the larger openings in the porous sandstone or limestone.
A lot of additional oil has been located by drilling but is still waiting to be pumped out Possibly a great deal more oil remains to be found by drilling.
These examples, in the form of inscribed clay tablets that date to shortly before 3000 B.C.E., have been discovered among the archaeological remains of the Sumerians, a gifted people settled in southern Mesopotamia.
In the Near East they remained in use for more than two and a half millennia, and in certain areas they lasted down to the beginning of the common era until finally yielding, once and for all, to more convenient alternatives.
Most towns remained small.
Scientific evidence to illuminate these ideas has been slow in coming, and many shadows remain.
On occasion large groups amassed for war or religious festivals, but society remained centered on small communities.
All the evidence points to the conclusion that these are the remains of prey items and that, as an adult, Coelophysis was at least in part a cannibal. 
In a few rare cases, most of them   mummies   (unusually well preserved specimens), fossilized plant remains have been found inside the body cavity of hadrosaurs.
In the chest cavity of this specimen, which is housed in the Senckenberg Museum in Germany, are the fossil remains of conifer needles, twigs, seeds, and fruits.
