When this occurs, the first step has been taken toward theater as an autonomous activity, and thereafter entertainment and aesthetic values may gradually replace the former mystical and socially efficacious concerns. 
Within a vertical distance of just a few tens of meters, trees disappear as a life-form and are replaced by low shrubs, herbs, and grasses.
Individual fish may be replaced, but the number of fish will tend to be the same from one year to the next.
A local population that goes extinct is quickly replaced by immigrants from an adjacent community.
Indeed, if you take baby tree swallows out of a nest for an hour feeding half the set and starving the other half, when the birds are replaced in the nest, the starved youngsters beg more loudly than the fed birds, and the parent birds feed the active beggars more than those who beg less vigorously.
This process is termed "replacement" because solutions have dissolved the original material and replaced it with an equal volume of the new substance.
The surface of the ground can sink if hot groundwater is withdrawn without being replaced.
Geothermal energy is in a sense not renewable, because in most cases the heat would be drawn out of a reservoir much more rapidly than it would be replaced by the very slow geological processes by which heat flows through solid rock into a heat reservoir.
Charcoal, made from wood and thus in limited supply, was replaced with coal-derived coke (substance left after coal is heated) as steam-driven bellows came into use for producing of raw iron.
Unfortunately this early plant experienced the problem common to many forms of renewable energy: the flow in the Wey River was unreliable, and the waterwheel was soon replaced by a steam engine.
In most localities a given species of clam or coral persists essentially unchanged throughout a thick formation of rock, only to be replaced suddenly by a new and different species.
Horses evolved in discrete steps, each of which persisted almost unchanged for millions of years and was eventually replaced by a distinctive newer model.
Native grasses were replaced by a small number of plants cultivated as commodities.
Tame grasses replaced native grasses in pastures for making hay.
This came about from two major developments: paper became common, replacing parchment as the major medium for writing, and rounded scripts were regularized and perfected so that they replaced the angular scripts of the previous period, which because of their angularity were uneven in height.
Because of the growth of population, most of the great forests of medieval Britain had long ago been replaced by fields of grain and hay.
The steam power plant began to replace waterpower in the cotton-spinning mills as well as other industries during the 1780s, contributing to a phenomenal rise in industrialization.
Cereals, which are easy to digest, would have supplemented and then replaced mother's milk as the primary food for older infants.
Under seasonal succession, one or more species dominate the phytoplankton for a shorter or longer period of time and then are replaced by another set of species.
This succession is different from typical terrestrial ecological succession in which various plants replace one another until finally a so-called climax community develops, which persists for many years.
Furthermore, temperature changes rather slowly in seawater, and the replacement of dominant species often is much more rapid.
Nonetheless, they have not replaced the light microscope.
As a result, the scribes were assigned their own goddess, Nisaba, later replaced by the god Nabu of Borsippa, whose symbol is neither weapon nor dragon but something far more fearsome, the cuneiform stick. 
As time went on, the self-sufficiency of communities was replaced by mutual dependence.
There were getting to be too many persons to know, an easily observable community of interests was being replaced by a multiplicity of interests.
Every year during the months of December and January, a weak, warm countercurrent replaces the normally cold coastal waters.
Hockney argues that the camera obscura does not replace artistic skill in drawing and painting.
