For example, one sign of this condition is the appearance of the comic vision, since comedy requires sufficient detachment to view some deviations from social norms as ridiculous rather than as serious threats to the welfare of the entire group.
Many have been attempting to conserve water by irrigating less frequently or by switching to crops that require less water.
In that case, climax communities would be the most fragile and the least stable, since they can require hundreds of years to return to the climax state.
Research has shown that certain minerals are required by plants for normal growth and development.
The basic cultural requirements for the successful colonization of the Pacific islands include the appropriate boat-building, sailing, and navigation skills to get to the islands in the first place, domesticated plants and gardening skills suited to often marginal conditions, and a varied inventory of fishing implements and techniques.
These calculations suggest that a period of about one million years would have been required.
So the unusually high concentration of Ir seems to require a special explanation.
Their absence supports the picture of a cold, dry Mars that never experienced the extended mild period required to form lakes and oceans.
Wildman and Niles observed that systematic reflection on teaching required a sound ability to understand classroom events in an objective manner.
The researchers estimate that the initial training of the teachers to view events objectively took between 20 and 30 hours, with the same number of hours again being required to practice the skills of reflection. 
The first is support from administrators in an education system, enabling teachers to understand the requirements of reflective practice and how it relates to teaching students.
Support and encouragement were also required to help teachers in the program cope with aspects of their professional life with which they were not comfortable.
Becoming a reflective practitioner requires extra work (Jaworski, 1993) and has only vaguely defined goals with, perhaps, little initially perceivable reward and the threat of vulnerability.
To build up a better picture of fluctuations appreciably further back in time requires us to use proxy records.
Only iron smelting and mining required marshaling a significant amount of capital (wealth invested to create more wealth).
Survival and successful reproduction usually require the activities of animals to be coordinated with predictable events around them.
However, research has shown that children often have difficulty understanding disclaimers: children may interpret the phrase "when part of a nutritionally balanced breakfast" to mean that the cereal is required as a necessary part of a balanced breakfast.
A shorter drought in which they exhausted their stored food supplies might already have gotten them in deep trouble, because growing crops required rain rather than reservoirs.
Inequalities of gender have also existed in pastoralist societies, but they seem to have been softened by the absence of steep hierarchies of wealth in most communities, and also by the requirement that women acquire most of the skills of men, including, often, their military skills.
Accomplishing this feat requires adaptations both to generate heat in the turtle  s body and to keep it from escaping into the surrounding waters.
Some of the proposed mechanisms required a very brief period during which all extinctions suddenly took place; other mechanisms would be more likely to have taken place more gradually, over an extended period, or at different times on different continents.
It is a monumental scientific achievement, and its development illustrates the essential interplay between observation, prediction, and testing required for scientific progress.
This may require moving to different parts of the forest at different times of the day or under different weather conditions, or it may be achieved by changing color according to the changing light conditions.
Their major point was that the distribution of a given species was controlled by the habitat requirements of that species and that therefore the vegetation types were a simple consequence of the ecologies of individual plant species.
In the fifteenth century there was little problem recruiting sailors to row the galleys (large ships propelled by oars): guilds (business associations) were required to provide rowers, and through a draft system free citizens served compulsorily when called for.
In the early sixteenth century the shortage of rowers was not serious because the demand for galleys was limited by a move to round ships (round-hulled ships with more cargo space), with required fewer rowers.
Private shipbuilders were required to buy their oak abroad.
Life on land, however, also required new methods of transporting sperm to eggs.
the number of signs required had been reduced to 600, and the range of words that could be expressed had widened.
Similar exhaustive studies are required for many different kinds of organisms from many different periods.
In short, children require development appropriate educational practice, which is education that is based on both typical development and the unique characteristics of a given child. 
Peasants now paid a tax on individuals instead of being required to render labor service to the government.
Under these conditions, it made good sense to thousands of peasant families to in effect work full-time at what they had been able to do only part-time previously because of the requirement to work for the government: grow rice for the marketplace. 
Since the highly active worker ants require a great deal of energy, plants exploit this need by providing extrafloral nectar that supplies ants with abundant energy.
It is now known that certain phytoplankton species have requirements for certain vitamins, and that there are considerable differences among species as to requirements.
The B vitamins, especially vitamin B12, thiamine and biotin, seem to be the most generally required.
Although it is suspected that these organic metabolites may have an important role in species succession and it has been demonstrated in the laboratory that phytoplankton species vary both in their ability to produce necessary vitamins and in their requirements for such in order to grow, evidence is still inadequate as to their real role in the sea.
Last but not least of these considerations is the effort and resources required in this type of action, which need to be justified by evidence of the likely benefits. 
Is translocation successful if the individuals survive the first week or a year, or do they need to reproduce for one or several generations  Whatever the answer, it is clear that a general framework is required to ensure that any translocation is justified, has a realistic chance of success, and will be properly monitored and evaluated for the benefit of future efforts. 
The presence of mammal species that require grassland vegetation has led Arctic biologist Dale Guthrie to argue that while cold and dry, there must have been broad areas of dense vegetation to support herds of mammoth, horse, and bison.
Wind pollination does, of course, require a lot of pollen.
Particulate organic matter of at least 2.5 micrograms per cubic liter is required to provide a filter-feeding planktonic organism with a net energy gain This value is easily exceeded in most coastal waters, but in the deep sea, the levels of organic matter range from next to nothing to around 7 micrograms per cubic liter.
Learning these complex signs required long training and much practice; inevitably, literacy was largely limited to a small professional class, the scribes.
Clearly, this is a complex issue that requires further field research with a broad spectrum of ecosystems and species: grassland plants and computer models will only take us so far.
Its many occupants require over 250 quarts of oxygen (more than 1,200 quarts of aire) per day.
This finer level of resolution requires direct fossil evidence of dinosaur meals.
The assessment of past rises and falls in sea level requires study of submerged land surfaces off the coast and of raised of elevated beaches on land.
