The transition from forest to treeless tundra on a mountain slope is often a dramatic one.
In many semiarid areas there is also a lower timberline where the forest passes into steppe or desert at its lower edge, usually because of a lack of moisture.
Edison was more interested in the sale of Kinetoscopes (for roughly $1,000 apiece) to these parlors than in the films that would be run in them (which cost approximately $10 to $15 each).
In contrast, a complex climax community, such as a temperate forest, will tolerate considerable damage from weather to pests.
Once a redwood forest matures, for example, the kinds of species and the number of individuals growing on the forest floor are reduced.
Ecologists are especially interested to know what factors contribute to the resilience of communities because climax communities all over the world are being severely damaged or destroyed by human activities.
The other species, the Columbian white-tailed deer, in earlier times was common in the open prairie country; it is now restricted to the low, marshy islands and flood plains along the lower Columbia River. 
Nearly any kind of plant of the forest understory can be part of a deer's diet.
Where the forest inhibits the growth of grass and other meadow plants, the black-tailed deer browses on huckleberry, salal, dogwood, and almost any other shrub or herb.
But the most profound reason for the restoration of high population numbers has been the fate of the forests.
Great tracts of lowland country deforested by logging, fire, or both have become ideal feeding grounds of deer.
The paintings rest on bare walls, with no backdrops or environmental trappings.
The anthropologist Alexander Marshack has an interesting interpretation of some of the engravings made during the Upper Paleolithic.
The rest is far too difficult to extract and has to remain underground. 
After several years of cultivation and harvest, the site would be restored at a cost much lower than the price of excavation and reburial, the standard practice for remediation of contaminated soils.
Knowledge of iron making penetrated into the forest and savannahs of West Africa at roughly the same time that iron making was reaching Europe.
Wildman and Niles were particularly interested in investigating the conditions under which reflection might flourish Ca subject on which there is little guidance in the literature.
Some species developed great size, becoming tree ferns that even now grow in the Hawaiian forests. 
Remarkably resistant to the vicissitudes of ocean travel, they can survive prolonged immersion in saltwater when they come to rest on warm beaches and the conditions are favorable, the seed coats soften.
During the sixteenth century, farmers brought more land into cultivation at the expense of forests and fens (low-lying wetlands).
Early in his research, Kramer found that caged migratory birds became very restless at about the time they would normally have begun migration in the wild.
He then set up experiments with caged starlings and found that their orientation was, in fact, in the proper migratory direction except when the sky was overcast, at which times there was no clear direction to their restless movements.
In experimenting with artificial suns, Kramer made another interesting discovery.
This prediction was supported by data collected in one survey of 24 species from an Arizona forest, more evidence that predator pressure favors the evolution of begging calls that are hard to detect and pinpoint.
They were interested in all forms of sound technology and all potential avenues for commercial exploitation.
Our ties with people often deepen as we interact with them across time and gradually evolve interlocking habits and interests.
The relations between animal activity and these periods, particularly for the daily rhythms, have been of such interest and importance that a huge amount of work has been done on them and the special research field of chronobiology has emerged.
Numerical increases are used as quantifiable indicators of heightened interest in the new stimulus.
To understand the ancient Mayan people who lived in the area that is today southern Mexico and Central America and the ecological difficulties they faced, one must first consider their environment, which we think of as "jungle" or "tropical rainforest."
Properly speaking, tropical rainforests grow in high-rainfall equatorial areas that remain wet or humid all year round.
But the Maya homeland lies more than sixteen hundred kilometers from the equator, at latitudes 17 to 22 degrees north, in a habitat termed a "seasonal tropical forest."
If one focuses on the wet months, one calls the Maya homeland a "seasonal tropical forest"; if one focuses on the dry months, one could instead describe it as a "seasonal desert."
Here, the horse was already becoming the animal of prestige in many regions, though sheep, goats, and cattle could also play a vital role.
The solution is to allow the flippers to cool down without drawing heat away from the rest of the turtle  s body.
One interesting test of the Alvarez hypothesis is based on the presence of the rare-earth element iridium (Ir).
Trade was the mainstay of the urban economy in the Middle East, as caravans negotiated the surrounding desert, restricted only by access to water and by mountain ranges.
The planets in our solar system fall into two groups: the terrestrial (Earth-like) planets (Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars) and the Jovian (Jupiter-like) planets (Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune).
The most obvious difference between the terrestrial and the Jovian planets is their size.
The largest terrestrial planet, Earth has a diameter only one quarter as great as the diameter of the smallest Jovian planet, Neptune, and its mass is only one seventeenth as great.
Also, because of their relative locations, the four Jovian planets are known as the outer planets, while the terrestrial planets are known as the inner planets.
The densities of the terrestrial planets average about 5 times the density of water, whereas the Jovian planets have densities that average only 1.5 times the density of water.
The terrestrial planets are mostly rocks: dense rocky and metallic material, with minor amounts of gases.
By comparison, the terrestrial planets have meager atmospheres at best.
The Jovian planets, because of their greater masses and thus higher surface gravities, have higher escape velocities (21-60 kilometers per second) than the terrestrial planets.
The slightly larger terrestrial planets Earth, Venus, and Mars retain some heavy gases like carbon dioxide, but even their atmospheres make up only an infinitesimally small portion of their total mass.
However, unlike Jupiter, the terrestrial planets today are nearly void of light gases and ices.
The explanation may be that the terrestrial planets were once much larger and richer in these materials but eventually lost them because of these bodies' relative closeness to the Sun, which meant that their temperatures were relatively high.
The daytime quality of light in forests varies with the density of the vegetation, the angle of the Sun, and the amount of cloud in the sky.
In the varied and constantly changing light environment of the forest, an animal must be able to send visual signals to members of its own species and at the same time avoid being detected by predators.
This may require moving to different parts of the forest at different times of the day or under different weather conditions, or it may be achieved by changing color according to the changing light conditions.
Certain butterflies move into spots of sunlight that have penetrated to the forest floor and display by opening and closing their beautifully patterned wings in the bright spotlights.
Very little light filters through the canopy of leaves and branches in a rain forest to reach ground level  or close to the ground  and at those levels the yellow-to-green wavelengths predominate.
In the green-to-yellow lighting conditions of the lowest levels of the forest, yellow and green would be the brightest colors, but when an animal is signaling, these colors would not be very visible if the animal was sitting in an area with a yellowish or greenish background.
In this part of the rain forest, therefore, red and orange are the best colors for signaling, and they are the colors used in signals by the ground-walking Australian brush turkey.
This species, which lives in the rain forests and scrublands of the east coast of Australia, has a brown-to-black plumage with bare, bright-red skin on the head and neck and a neck collar of orange-yellow loosely hanging skin.
This impressive display is clearly visible in the light spectrum illuminating the forest floor.
Less colorful birds and animals that inhabit the rain forest tend to rely on other forms of signaling other than the visual, particularly over long distances.
The piercing cries of the rhinoceros hornbill characterize the Southeast Asian rain forest, as do the unmistakable calls of the gibbons.
In forests, visual signals can be seen only at short distances, where they are not obstructed by trees.
In the early twentieth century, the American ecologist Frederic Clements pointed out that a succession of plant communities would develop after a disturbance such as a volcanic eruption, heavy flood, or forest fire.
An abandoned field, for instance, will be invaded successively by herbaceous plants (plants with little or no woody tissue), shrubs, and trees, eventually becoming a forest.
Indeed, there are vast areas of spruce forest without moose.
As a result, many Americans were an inveterately restless, rootless, and ambitious people.
The West had plenty of attractions: the alluvial river bottoms, the fecund soils of the rolling forest lands, the black loams of the prairies were tempting to New England farmers working their rocky, sterile land and to southeastern farmers plagued with soil depletion and erosion.
Pollen samples from freshwater lakes in Syria and elsewhere tell us forest cover expanded rapidly at the end of the Ice Age, for the southwestern Asian climate was still cooler and considerably wetter than today.
Hundreds of tiny plant remains show how the inhabitants exploited nut harvests in nearby pistachio and oak forests.
However, as the climate dried up, the forests retreated from the vicinity of the settlement.
Although most fossils are found in marine sedimentary rocks, they also are found in terrestrial deposits left by streams and lakes.
Mithen proposes the existence of four mental elements to account for the emergence of farming: (1) the ability to develop tools that could be used intensively to harvest and process plant resources; (2) the tendency to use plants and animals as the medium to acquire social prestige and power; (3) the tendency to develop "social relationships" with animals structurally similar to those developed with people  specifically, the ability to think of animals as people (anthropomorphism) and of people as animals (totemism); and (4) the tendency to manipulate plants and animals.
It is interesting to note that some studies show Caucasian American children have earlier childhood memories than Korean children do.
Along the east coast Spartina is considered valuable for its ability to prevent erosion and marshland deterioration; it is also used for coastal restoration projects and the creation of new wetland sites.
The produce was then transported by water to markets in the cities, where the consumption of fruit and vegetables was no longer restricted to the wealthy.
Forty-three windmills powered the drainage pumps so that they were able to lease the reclamation to farmers as early as 1612, with the investors receiving annual leasing payments at an interest rate of 17 percent.
For the majority of lakes, certainly those surrounded by forests, input from overland flow is too small to have a noticeable effect.
For example, during wakefulness   there is an immediate, automatic, adaptive increase in breathing effort when inhaling is made more difficult (such as breathing through a restrictive face mask).
In ancient Roman times, the Italian peninsula had great forest of fir preferred for warships, but scarcity was apparent as early as the early fourteenth century.
The Portuguese Vasco de Gama  s Voyaga around southern Afica to India  took place at the end of the fifteenth century, and by 1502 the trans- Abrabian caravan route had been cut off by political unrest.
The terrestrial world is green now, but it did not start out that way.
So once natural selection had shaped the adaptations that helped plants overcome the obstacles to terrestrial living, plants prospered and diversified.
When plants pioneered the land, they faced a range of challenges posed by terrestrial environments.
Other adaptations occurred later in the transition to terrestrial life and now wide spread but not universal among plants.
These include conducting vessels that transport water and minerals upward from the roots and that move the photosynthetic products from the leaves to the rest of the plant body and the stiffening substance lignin, which support the plant body, helping it expose maximum surface area to sunlight.
The resulting boom in the iron industry expanded the annual iron output by more than 170 times between 1740 and 1840, and by the 1850s Great Britain was producing more tons of iron than the rest of the world combined.
The smooth bark of small red maples makes this species ideal for buck rubs in the forests of the mid-eastern United States. 
In the case of animals it is usually food; in the case of forest plants it may be light; in the case of substrate inhabitants it may be space, as in many shallow-water bottom-dwelling marine organisms.
In any case, in animals it consists of leaping, running, climbing, throwing, wrestling, and other movements, either alone, with objects, or with other animals.
Although church ritual hand sustained an interest in timekeeping throughout the centuries of urban collapse that followed the fall of Rome, church time was nature  s time.
One theory behind savanna formation is that wet forest species are unable to withstand the dry season, and thus a savanna, rather than a rain forest, is favored on the site.
In many characteristics, savanna soils are similar to those of some rain forests, though more extreme.
For example, savanna soils, like many rain forest soils, are typically oxisols(dominated by certain oxide minerals) and ultisols(soils containing no calcium carbonate), with a high acidity and notably low concentrations of such minerals as phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, and potassium, while aluminum levels are high.
This may seem contradictory, but it only means that extreme soil conditions, either too wet or too dry for forests, are satisfactory for savannas.
More moderate conditions support moist forests. 
Though most savannas are found on sites with poor soils(because of either moisture conditions or nutrient levels of both), poor soils can and do support lush rain forest. 
Many savanna and dry-forest plant species are called pyrophytes, meaning they are adapted in various ways to withstand occasional burning.
Frequent fire is a factor to which rain forest species seem unable to adapt, although ancient charcoal remains from Amazon forest soils dating prior to the arrival of humans suggest that moist forests also occasionally burn.
On certain sites, particularly in South America, savanna formation seems related to frequent cutting and burning of moist forests for pastureland.
Forests on white, sandy soil are most susceptible to permanent alteration. 
Many forest plants seem to exhibit the latter adaptation, and viable seeds of pioneer species can be found in large numbers on some forest floors.
For example, as many as 1,125 viable seeds per square meter were found in a 100-year-old Douglas fir/western hemlock forest in coastal British Columbia.
The rapid colonization of such sites after disturbance is undoubtedly in part a reflection of the large seed bank on the forest floor.
These families were pensioned off(given a sum of money to live on) or simply had their revenues taken away or restricted; their sons were enticed away to schools for district officers, later to be posted in some faraway  province; and the old patron-client relations that had bound together local societies simply disintegrated.
There were still forests closely surrounding Bangkok into the last half of the nineteenth century, and even at century  s end there were wild elephants and tigers roaming the countryside only twenty or thirty miles away.
They studied competition and nest spacing in populations of stingless bees in tropical dry forests in Costa Rica.
They concentrated their studies on a thirteen-hectare tract of tropical dry forest that contained numerous nests of nine species of stingless bees.
Though Hubbell and Johnson were interested in how bee behavior might affect colony distributions, they recognized that the availability of potential nest sites for colonies could also affect distributions.
By 1850 the United States possessed roughly 9,000 miles of railroad track; then years later it had over 30,000 miles, more than the rest of the world combined.
Because eastern plows could not penetrate the densely tangled roots of prairie grass, the earliest settlers erected farms along the boundary separating the forest from the prairie.
Starting about 280 million years ago, reptiles were the dominant large animals in terrestrial environments.
However, no group or species can maintain its dominance indefinitely, and when, after over 200 million years, the age of dinosaurs came to a dramatic end about 65 million years ago, mammals began to flourish, evolving from relatively few types of small terrestrial animals into the myriad of diverse species, including bats and whales, that we know today.
Because of the growth of population, most of the great forests of medieval Britain had long ago been replaced by fields of grain and hay.
Vast forests enabled Russia to become the world  s leading producer of iron, much of which was exported to Britain.
These underestimated the actual age by factors of 10 to 50 because much of the sedimentary record is missing in various locations and because there is a long rock sequence that is older than half a billion years that is far less well defined in terms of fossils and less well preserved.
This succession is different from typical terrestrial ecological succession in which various plants replace one another until finally a so-called climax community develops, which persists for many years.
Modern soundings indicate he overestimated his depths by several hundred fathoms, but in any case Ross  s clam dove several times deeper than Forbes  s dredge.
Kettlewell hypothesized that the normal pale forms are difficult to see when resting on lichen-covered trees, whereas dark forms are conspicuous.
Within the United States, they are commonly taken from one area to another, both legally and illegally, to restock hunting areas and, presumably, because people simply want them to be part of their local fauna.
They have also expanded into many areas lacking any agriculture other than grazing and into places without forests or permanent streams.
In the eighteenth century, when the wolfs range included almost all of North America, raccoons apparently were abundant only in the deciduous forests of the East, Gulf Coast, and Great Lakes regions, though they also extended into the wooded bottomlands of the Midwest  s major rivers.
Forest and shrubland burning appears to have reduced the prime habitat of many moa species.
However, the main forest burning started around 700 years ago, after what current archaeological evidence indicates was the most intensive stage of moa hunting.
While there appears to have been extensive burning on the east side of New Zealand  s South Island, large forest tracts remained in the most southern part of the island.
Forest fires have recently increased in intensity and extent in some forest types throughout the western United States.
This recent increase in fires has resulted partly from climate change (the recent trend toward hot, dry summers) and partly from human activities, for complicated reasons that foresters came increasingly to understand about 30 years ago but whose relative importance is still debated.
One factor is the direct effect of logging, which often turns a forest into something approximating a huge pile of kindling (wood for burning): the ground in a logged forest may remain covered with branches and treetops, left behind when the valuable trunks are carted away; a dense growth of new vegetation springs up, further increasing the forest  s fuel loads; and the trees logged and removed are of course the biggest and most fire-resistant individuals, leaving behind smaller and more flammable trees.
Another factor is that the United States Forest Service in the first decade of the 1900s adopted the policy of fire suppression (attempting to put out forest fires) for the obvious reason that it did not want valuable timber to go up in smoke, or people  s homes and lives to be threatened.
The Forest Service  s announced goal became   Put out every forest fire by 10:00 A.M on the morning after the day when it is first reported.
That happy situation began to change in the 1980s, due to the increasing frequency of large forest fires that were essentially impossible to extinguish unless rain and low winds combined to help.
People began to realize that the United States federal government  s fire-suppression policy was contributing to those big fires and that natural fires caused by lighting had previously played an important role in maintaining forest structure.
The natural role of fire varies with altitude, tree species, and forest type.
To make Montana  s low-altitude ponderosa pine forest as an example, historical records, plus counts of annual tree rings and datable fire scars on tree stumps, demonstrated that a ponderosa pine forest experiences a lightning-lit fire about once a decade under natural conditions (i.e.., before fire suppression began around 1910 and became effective after 1945).
As a result, many natural ponderosa pine forests have a parklike appearance, with low fuel loads, big trees spaced apart, and a relatively clear understory.
Tree densities increased from 30 to 200 trees per acre, the forest  s fuel load increased by a factor of 6, and the government repeatedly failed to appropriate money to thin out the saplings.
When a fire finally does start in a sapling-choked forest, whether due to lightning or human carelessness or (regrettably often) intentional arson, the dense, tall saplings young trees) may become a ladder that allows the fire to jump into the crowns of the trees.
Foresters now identify the biggest problem in managing Western forests as what to do with those increased fuel loads that built up during the previous half century of effective fire suppression.
In an ideal world, the Forest Service would manage and restore the forests, thin them out, and remove the dense understory by cutting or by controlled small fires.
The strength of the Athenian aristocracy was further weakened during the rest of the century by the rise of a type of government known as a tyranny, which is a form of interim rule by a popular strongman (not rule by a ruthless dictator as the modem use of the term suggests to us).
In a tropical rain forest, for example, a very large quantity of plant material builds up above the surface of the ground.
There is also a large mass of material, developed below ground as root tissues, but this is less apparent Careful analysis of the aboveground material reveals that it is arranged in a series of layers, the precise number of layers varying with age and the nature of the forest The arrangement of the biological mass (biomass) of the vegetation into layered forms is termed its "structure" (as opposed to its "composition", which refers to the species of organisms forming the community).
Structure is essentially the architecture of vegetation, and as in the case of some tropical forests, it can be extremely complicated.
In a mature floodplain tropical forest in the Amazon River basin, the canopy (the uppermost layers of a forest, formed by the crowns of trees) takes on a stratified structure.
So, such a forest contains essentially four layers of canopy.
Forests in temperate lands often have just two canopy layers, so they have much less complex architecture.
When the world, which was created in beauty, becomes ugly and disorderly, the Navajo gather to perform rituals with songs and make sand paintings to restore beauty and harmony to the world.
Thus, the restoration of harmony through a ceremony can be part of a curing process.
Interest in long distance trade brought about some cultural homogeneity from trade and gift exchange, and perhaps even led to piracy.
About one-quarter of its surface seems to be as old and heavily cratered; the rest formed more recently, as we can tell by the sparse covering of impact craters as well as the relative freshness of the craters.
Ganymede is a differentiated world, like the terrestrial planets.
This implied that the city-state was based on the idea that citizens were not specialists but had multiple interests and talents    each a so-called jack-of-all-trades who could engage in many areas of life and politics.
There were getting to be too many persons to know, an easily observable community of interests was being replaced by a multiplicity of interests.
One of the most significant evolutionary events that occurred on Earth was the transition of water-dwelling fish to terrestrial tetrapods (four-limbed organisms with backbones).
The freshwater Devonian lobe-finned fish rhipidistian crossopterygian is of particular interest to biologists studying tetrapod evolution.
Changes in climate during the Devonian may have had something to do with this if freshwater areas became progressively more restricted.
In addition, plants had emerged into terrestrial habitats in areas near streams and ponds, and crabs and other arthropods were also members of this earliest terrestrial community.
How did the first tetrapods make the transition to a terrestrial habitat?
It is interesting that temperate seagrass beds accumulate sediments from sources outside the beds, whereas tropical seagrass beds derive most of their sediments from within.
For the relatively few dominant tree species that make up temperate forests, where there are many individuals of the same species within pollen range, this is quite a safe gamble.
In a similar way, trees in temperate forests that are insect pollinated tend to grow as solitary, widely spread individuals.
In the years to come, alliances with the middle classes were to enable kings to weaken aristocratic interests and build the states that came to be called modern.
After the Roman Empire  s conquest of Britain in the first century A.D., the presence of administrators, merchants, and troops on British soil, along with the natural flow of ideas and goods from the rest of the empire, had an enormous influence on life in the British Isles.
We should not underestimate the social status associated with such mundane possessions which had not previously been available.
An important environment that is more or less totally restricted to the intertropical zone is the coral reef.
Indeed, they have been called the marine version of the tropical rain forest, rivaling their terrestrial counterparts in both richness of species and biological productivity.
Fossilized stomach contents are not restricted to carnivorous dinosaurs.
