The increasing use of dried animal waste as a substitute fuel has also hurt the soil because this valuable soil conditioner and source of plant nutrients is no longer being returned to the land. 
Alternatively, stability can be defined as the speed with which an ecosystem returns to a particular form following a major disturbance, such as a fire.
In that case, climax communities would be the most fragile and the least stable, since they can require hundreds of years to return to the climax state.
And when game moved out of the lowlands in early spring, the expedition decided to return east rather than face possible starvation.
As Patrick Kirch, an American anthropologist, points out, rather than being brought by rafting South Americans, sweet potatoes might just have easily been brought back by returning Polynesian navigators who could have reached the west coast of South America.
Somewhat later, the migrants returned, bringing new species with them.
As the basin was refilled, normal marine organisms returned.
A classic example is noisy begging by nestling songbirds when a parent returns to the nest with food.
The problem is that as blood flows through the turtle  s flippers, it risks losing enough heat to lower the animal  s central body temperature when it returns.
Unlike rain, which returns rapidly to the sea or atmosphere, the snow that becomes part of a glacier is involved in a much more slowly cycling system.
In 1857, in return for a payment of 63 million kronor from other commercial nations, Denmark abolished the Sound toll dues, the fees it had collected since 1497 for the use of the Sound.
This meant a great dependence on international commerce, which had notorious fluctuations; but it also meant high returns to those factors of production that were fortunate enough to be well placed in times of prosperity.
Newly raised regiments were normally transferred to another province from whence it was unlikely that individual recruits would ever return.
These waters present a disposal problem if they are not returned to the ground from which they were removed.
If the irritation is severe enough, a sleeping person will arouse, clear the airway, then resume breathing and likely return to sleep.
To return this favor, ants guard the nectaries, driving away or killing intruding insects that might compete with ants for nectar.
To answer the question about Venus   lack of water, we must return to the early history of the planet.
In fact, this is the time of year they traditionally set aside to tend to their equipment and await the return of cold water.
