He received rudimentary village schooling, but mostly he roamed his uncle's farm collecting the fossils that were so abundant in the rocks of the Cotswold hills.
The sheer passage of time does not account for it; adults have excellent recognition of pictures of people who attended high school with them 35 years earlier.
Physiological immaturity may be part of why infants and toddlers do not form extremely enduring memories, even when they hear stories that promote such remembering in preschoolers.
Hearing the stories may lead preschoolers to encode aspects of events that allow them to form memories they can access as adults.
About the closest any research has come to supporting the tiredness theory is to confirm that adults yawn more often on weekdays than at weekends, and that school children yawn more frequently in their first year at primary school than they do in kindergarten.
Preschools---educational programs for children under the age of five---differ significantly from one country to another according to the views that different societies hold regarding the purpose of early childhood education.
For instance, in a cross-country comparison of preschools in China, Japan, and the United States, researchers found that parents in the three countries view the purpose of preschools very differently.
Whereas parents in China tend to see preschools primarily as a way of giving children a good start academically, Japanese parents view them primarily as a way of giving children the opportunity to be members of a group.
In the United States, in comparison, parents regard the primary purpose of preschools as making children more independent and self-reliant, although obtaining a good academic start and having group experience are also important.
While many programs designed for preschoolers focus primarily on social and emotional factors, some are geared mainly toward promoting cognitive gains and preparing preschoolers for the formal instruction they will experience when they start kindergarten.
On the other hand, it is clear that Head Start is meeting its goal of getting preschoolers read for school.
Preschoolers who participate in Head Start are better prepared for future schooling than those who do not.
Furthermore, graduates of Head Start programs have better future school grade.
Finally, some research suggests that ultimately Head Start graduates show higher academic performance at the end of high school, although the gains are modest. 
In addition, results from other types of preschool readiness programs indicate that those who participate and graduate are less likely to repeat grades, and they are more likely to complete school than readiness program, for every dollar spent on the program, taxpayers saved seven dollars by the time the graduates reached the age of 27. 
The most recent comprehensive evaluation of early intervention programs suggests that, taken as a group, preschools programs can provide significant benefits, and that government funds invested early in life may ultimately lead to a reduction in future costs.
Not everyone agrees that programs that seek to enhance academic skills during the preschool years are a good thing.
These families were pensioned off(given a sum of money to live on) or simply had their revenues taken away or restricted; their sons were enticed away to schools for district officers, later to be posted in some faraway  province; and the old patron-client relations that had bound together local societies simply disintegrated.
