Architecture is the art and science of designing structures that organize and enclose space for practical and symbolic purposes.
In speculative philosophy and the sciences, the Romans made virtually no advance on early achievements. 
In the late nineteenth century, ecology began to grow into an independent science from its roots in natural history and plant geography.
In the middle of the nineteenth century, Louis Agassiz, one of the first scientists to study glaciers, immigrated to the United States from Switzerland and became a professor at Harvard University, where he continued his studies in geology and other sciences.
While many other observers and thinkers had laid the groundwork for science, Thales ( circa 624 B.C.E-ca 547 B.C.E.
Cuneiform texts on science, astronomy, medicine, and mathematics abound, some offering astoundingly precise data.
was the first person in Greece to propose a morality based on individual conscience rather than the demands of the state, and for this he was accused of not believing in the city  s gods and so corrupting the youth, and he was condemned to death.
Greek philosophy  or even a focus on conscience  might complement religion but was no substitute for it, and this made Greeks receptive to the religious systems of the Middle East, even if they never adopted them completely The combination of the religious instinct of Asia with the philosophic spirit of Greece spread across the world in the era after Alexander  s death, blending the culture of the Middle East with the culture of Greece.
One of the artists whose paintings are being analyzed from this point of view is the great Dutch master, Jan Vermeer, who lived from 1632 to 1675 during the flowering of art and science in the Netherlands, including the science of optics.
In the Western experience, commerce provided the conditions that allowed industrialization to get started, which in turn led to growth in science, technology, industry, transport, communications, social change, and the like that we group under the broad term of   development.
