They had experienced great difficulty finding game west of the Rockies and not until the second of December did they kill their first elk.
A second explanation involves the influence of the social world on children  s language use.
Judging from the width and depth of the channels, the flow rates must have been truly enormous  perhaps as much as a hundred times greater than the 105 tons per second carried by the great Amazon river.
The second is the availability of sufficient time and space.
Sociologists have built on the distinction between expressive and instrumental ties to distinguish between two types of groups: primary and secondary.
A secondary group entails two or more people who are involved in an impersonal relationship and have come together for a specific, practical purpose.
Instrumental ties predominate in secondary groups; we perceive people as means to ends rather than as ends in their own right.
Sometimes primary group relationships evolve out of secondary group relationships.
The second technique relies on evoked potentials, which are electrical brain responses that may be related to a particular stimulus because of where they originate.
Also, large blocks thrown aside by the impact would form secondary craters surrounding the main crater.
To date, several such secondary craters have been found along Mexico  s Yucatan Peninsula, and heat-shocked quartz has been found both in Mexico and in Haiti.
Glaciers are part of Earth  s hydrologic cycle and are second only to the oceans in the total amount of water contained.
For Earth, this velocity is 11 kilometers per second.
The Jovian planets, because of their greater masses and thus higher surface gravities, have higher escape velocities (21-60 kilometers per second) than the terrestrial planets.
Some chameleon species can change from a rather dull appearance to a full riot of carnival colors in seconds.
In the second case, pollinators (insects, birds) obtain food from the flowering plant, and the plant has its pollen distributed and seeds dispersed much more efficiently than they would be if they were carried by the wind only.
However, they industrialized rapidly in the second half of the century, especially in the last two or three decades.
The development of an understanding of the self becomes evident between the first and second years of life and shows rapid elaboration in subsequent years.
A second and very different process was patented by the British inventor William Henry Talbot (1800-1877) in 1841.
The second factor is that radiant heat coming into the city from the Sun is trapped in two ways: (1) by a continuing series of reflection among the numerous vertical surfaces that buildings present and (2) by the dust dome, the cloudlike layer of polluted air that most cities produce.
However, land reclamation decreased significantly after the middle of the seventeenth century because the price of agricultural products began to fall, making land reclamation far less profitable in the second part of the century. 
The second system is the voluntary, behavioral system.
In the second half of that millennium, in the south around the city of Uruk, there was an enormous escalation in the area occupied by permanent settlements.
A large part of that increase took place in Uruk itself, which became a real urban center surrounded by a set of secondary settlements.
It is made up entirely of broken oil amphorae, mainly of the second and third centuries A.D.
The earliest waterpower mills were probably vertical-axis mills for grinding corn, known as Norse or Greek mills, which seem to have appeared during the first or second century B.C.
Variation in rates of invasion and growth plays an important role in determining patterns of succession, especially secondary succession.
They were able to do so because of our second consideration.
Later, a few individuals of this new species may have been blown by storms to a neighboring island Isolated on this second island, the second founder population could have evolved into a second new species, which could later recolonize the island from which its founding population emigrated.
Estimated to be ten to fifteen kilometers in diameter, this bolide (either a comet or an asteroid) was traveling at cosmic speeds of 20-70 kilometers per second, or 45,000-156,000 miles per hour.
A second adaptation of these fish was in the structure of the lobe fins.
The best known of these cases is the second Edmontosaurus mummy collected by the Sternbergs.
A second form of direct evidence comes from coprolites (fossilized bodily waste).
