At first thought it seems incredible that there can be enough space in the   solid   ground underfoot to hold all this water. 
In seeking to describe the origins of theater, one must rely primarily on speculation, since there is little concrete evidence on which to draw.
Under this theory, relating and listening to stories are seen as fundamental human pleasures.
A closely related theory sees theater as evolving out of dances that are primarily pantomimic, rhythmical or gymnastic, or from imitations of animal noises and sounds.
Admiration for the performer  s skill, virtuosity, and grace are seen as motivation for elaborating the activities into fully realized theatrical performances. 
One, set forth by Aristotle in the fourth century B.C., sees humans as naturally imitative  as taking pleasure in imitating persons, things, and actions and in seeing such imitations.
Another, advanced in the twentieth century, suggests that humans have a gift for fantasy, through which they seek to reshape reality into more satisfying forms than those encountered in daily life.
One necessary condition seems to be a somewhat detached view of human problems.
Late-lying snow reduces the effective growing season to the point where seedlings cannot establish themselves.
What audiences came to see was the technological marvel of the movies; the lifelike reproduction of the commonplace motion of trains, of waves striking the shore, and of people walking in the street; and the magic made possible by trick photography and the manipulation of the camera.
Humans instinctively seek structures that will shelter and enhance their way of life.
Some of the world  s finest stone architecture can be seen in the ruins of the ancient Inca city of Machu Picchu high in the eastern Andes Mountains of Peru.
Cave art seems to have reached a peak toward the end of the Upper Paleolithic period, when the herds of game were decreasing. 
Consistent with this idea, according to the investigators, is the fact that the art of the cultural period that followed the Upper Paleolithic also seems to reflect how people got their food.
Petroleum, consisting of crude oil and natural gas, seems to originate from organic matter in marine sediment.
Contrary to the arguments of some that much of the pacific was settled by Polynesians accidentally marooned after being lost and adrift, it seems reasonable that this feat was accomplished by deliberate colonization expeditions that set out fully stocked with food and domesticated plants and animals.
The origin of multicellular forms of life seems a relatively simple step compared to the origin of life itself.
As he collected fossils from strata throughout England, Smith began to see that the fossils told a different story from the rocks.
Not only could Smith identify rock strata by the fossils they contained, he could also see a pattern emerging: certain fossils always appear in more ancient sediments, while others begin to be seen as the strata become more recent.
Another seemingly plausible explanation  that infants do not form enduring memories at this point in development  also is incorrect.
Three other explanations seem more promising.
Demonstrations of infants   and toddlers' long-term memory have involved their repeating motor activities that they had seen or done earlier, such as reaching in the dark for objects, putting a bottle in a doll  s mouth, or pulling apart two pieces of a toy.
Telling such stories to two year olds does not seem to produce long-lasting verbalizable memories.
Thus, all three explanations  physiological maturation, hearing and producing stories about past events, and improved encoding of key aspects of events  seem likely to be involved in overcoming infantile amnesia.
Agriculture seems to have reached these people from the Near East, since the first domesticated crops were millets and sorghums whose origins are not African but west Asian.
It seems likely that Teotihuac  n  s natural resources, along with the city elite  s ability to recognize their potential, gave the city a competitive edge over its neighbors.
So the unusually high concentration of Ir seems to require a special explanation.
Two types of flow features are seen: runoff channels and outflow channels.
These flow features are extensive systems  sometimes hundreds of kilometers in total length  of interconnecting, twisting channels that seem to merge into larger, wider channels.
The onrushing water arising from these flash floods likely also formed the odd teardrop-shaped   islands   (resembling the miniature versions seen in the wet sand of our beaches at low tide) that have been found on the plains close to the ends of the outflow channels.
Furthermore, Mars Global Surveyor data released in 2003 seem to indicate that the Martian surface contains too few carbonate rock layers  layers containing compounds of carbon and oxygen  that should have been formed in abundance in an ancient ocean.
Many millions of years after ferns evolved (but long before the Hawaiian Islands were born from the sea), another kind of flora evolved on Earth: the seed-bearing plants.
The seed has an outer coating that surrounds the genetic material of the new plant, and inside this covering is a concentrated supply of nutrients.
Thus the seed  s chances of survival are greatly enhanced over those of the naked spore.
One type of seed-bearing plant, the angiosperm, includes all forms of blooming vegetation.
In the angiosperm the seeds are wrapped in an additional layer of covering.
In some angiosperms the seeds are equipped with gossamer wings, like the dandelion and milkweed seeds.
These new characteristics offered better ways for the seed to move to new habitats.
Plants with large, buoyant seeds  like coconuts  drift on ocean currents and are washed up on the shores.
Remarkably resistant to the vicissitudes of ocean travel, they can survive prolonged immersion in saltwater when they come to rest on warm beaches and the conditions are favorable, the seed coats soften.
By means of these seeds, plants spread more widely to new locations, even to isolated islands like the Hawaiian archipelago, which lies more than 2,000 miles west of California and 3,500 miles east of Japan.
The seeds of grasses, flowers, and blooming trees made the long trips to these islands.
(Grasses are simple forms of angiosperms that bear their encapsulated seeds on long stalks.)
Just as painted designs on Greek pots may seem today to be purely decorative, whereas in fact they were carefully and precisely worked out so that at the time, their meaning was clear, so it is with Chinese pots.
Much of the potential for European economic development lay in what at first glance would seem to have been only sleepy villages.
Why do the artists seem to get left and right confused?
They seemed to be using the Sun as a compass to determine direction.
At the time, this idea seemed preposterous.
As long as the birds could see the Sun, no matter how their surroundings were altered, they went directly to the correct food box.
Many signals that animals make seem to impose on the signalers costs that are overly damaging.
Water does not remain immobile in an aquifer but can seep out at springs or leak into other aquifers.
Their members command and dispense many of the rewards that are so vital to us and that make our lives seem worthwhile.
Such an external cue not only coordinates an animal's daily rhythms with particular features of the local solar day but also  because it normally does so day after day-seems to keep the internal clock's period close to that of Earth's rotation.
Because they cannot verbalize or fill out questionnaires, indirect techniques of naturalistic observation are used as the primary means of determining what infants can see, hear, feel, and so forth.
Inequalities of gender have also existed in pastoralist societies, but they seem to have been softened by the absence of steep hierarchies of wealth in most communities, and also by the requirement that women acquire most of the skills of men, including, often, their military skills.
A warm-blooded turtle may seem to be a contradiction in terms.
Possibilities for trade seemed promising, but no hope existed for maintaining the traditional routes over land A new way had to be found.
A signal might be most easily seen if it is maximally bright.
The best signal depends not only on its brightness but also on how well it contrasts with the background against which it must be seen.
In forests, visual signals can be seen only at short distances, where they are not obstructed by trees.
In the second case, pollinators (insects, birds) obtain food from the flowering plant, and the plant has its pollen distributed and seeds dispersed much more efficiently than they would be if they were carried by the wind only.
The ants also eat yellow structures at the tip of leaflets: these are protein rich and seem to have no function for the tree except to attract ants.
Such yawning is often referred to as "incongruous" because it seems out of place, at least on the tiredness view: soldiers yawning before combat, musicians yawning before performing, and athletes yawning before competing.
Their yawning seems to have nothing to do with sleepiness or boredom  quite the reverse  but it does precede a change in activity level.
The coming together of the oppositely charged particles neutralizes the electrical tension and releases a tremendous amount of energy, which we see as lightning.
Then a strong current of electrons follows that path from the cloud to the ground, and it is that current that illuminates the channel as the lightning we see.
The imposition of military rule also robbed local leaders of opportunities to participate in local government, so social development was stunted and the seeds of disaffection sown.
"Old America seemed to be breaking up and moving westward," observed an English visitor in 1817, during the first great wave of migration.
Thanks to extremely fine-grained excavation and extensive use of flotation methods (through which seeds are recovered from soil samples), we know a great deal about the foraging practices of the inhabitants of Abu Hureyra in Syria's Euphrates valley.
Soft parts, including skin, hair, and viscera of ice age mammoths, have been preserved in frozen soil or in the oozing tar of oil seeps.
The water is usually naturally occurring groundwater that seeps down along fractures in the rock; less typically, the water is artificially introduced by being pumped down from the surface.
The latter two sources are limited to those few areas where surface water seeps down through underground faults or fractures to reach deep rocks heated by the recent activity of molten rock material.
improvements in memory seem to occur.
It spreads primarily by underground stems; colonies form when pieces of the root system or whole plants float into an area and take root or when seeds float into a suitable area and germinate.
Nature now seemed able to speak for itself, with a minimum of interference.
They were also afraid of it, because it seemed likely to make their own efforts unnecessary.
Chondrites take their name from the Greek word chondros  meaning "seed"  an allusion to their appearance as rocks containing tiny seeds.
These seeds are actually chondrules: millimeter-sized melted droplets of silicate material that were cooled into spheres of glass and crystal.
It seems very unlikely that large portions of the nebula were heated to such extreme temperatures, and huge nebula areas could not possibly have lost heat so fast.
Certain features of these engravings lead to the conclusion that they are of great age  geological changes had clearly happened after the designs had been made and local Aboriginal informants, when first questioned about them, seemed to know nothing of their origins.
Motifs of seeming simplicity can encode complex meanings in Aboriginal Australia.
Water enters a lake from inflowing rivers, from underwater seeps and springs, from overland flow off the surrounding land, and from rain falling directly on the lake surface.
Changes in lake level not explained by river flows plus exchanges with the atmosphere must be due to the net difference between what seeps into the lake from the groundwater and what leaks into the groundwater.
Note the word "net": measuring the actual amounts of groundwater seepage into the lake and out of the lake is a much more complicated matter than merely inferring their difference.
If the former are greater, the lake is a surface-water-dominated lake; if the latter, it is a seepage-dominated lake.
For example, a pond in hilly country that maintains a steady water level all through a dry summer in spite of having no streams flowing into it must obviously be seepage dominated.
This decline can be seen clearly in the changes that affected Venetian shipping and trade.
Protected embryos and waterless k dispersal of sex cells were achieved with the origin of seed plans and the key evolutionary innovations that they introduced: pollen, seeds, and later, flowers and fruits.
Greater productivity and rising demands provided entrepreneurs with profits that could be reinvested to take advantage of new technologies to further expand capacity, or to seek alternative investment opportunities.
This replenishes the seed content of the desert soil.
The seeds then lie dormant until the next wet year, when the desert blooms again.
the political and economic life of the cities was centered on their temples, but it now seems probable that the cities had secular rulers from earliest times.
In the 1840s American geologist James Daly observed that the different Hawaii Islands seem to share a similar geologic evolution but are progressively more eroded, and therefore probably older, toward the northwest.
Thus, both factors can affect the cycle, which, in practice, seems to be generated by the conjunction of the two factors.
It is still unclear whether domesticated cattle were tamed independently in northern Africa or introduced to the continent from Southwest Asia.Whatever the source of the original tamed herds might have been, it seems entirely likely that much the same process of juxtaposition (living side by side) and control occurred in both Southwest Asia and northern Africa, and even in Europe, among peoples who had an intimate knowledge of the behavior of wild cattle.
But it may also occur among totally unrelated forms that compete for the same resource, such as seed-eating rodents and ants.
Numerous seeming exceptions to this law have since been found, but they can usually be explained as cases in which the two species, even though competing for a major joint resource, did not really occupy exactly the same niche.
No one knows exactly when the waterwheel was invented, but irrigation systems existed at least 5,000 years ago, and it seems probable that the earliest waterpower device was the noria, a waterwheel that raised water for irrigation in attached jars.
The earliest waterpower mills were probably vertical-axis mills for grinding corn, known as Norse or Greek mills, which seem to have appeared during the first or second century B.C.
However, like many later experts, this one would have suffered from an inability to see into the future.
Many species appear to remain unchanged in the fossil record for millions of years    a situation that seems to be at odds with Darwin  s model of continuous change.
A convincing 50-million-year sequence of modern horse ancestors    each slightly larger, with more complex teeth, a longer face, and a more prominent central toe    seemed to provide strong support for Darwin  s contention that species evolve gradually.
If it seems difficult to conceive how major changes could occur rapidly, consider this: An alteration of a single gene in flies is enough to turn a normal fly with a single pair of wings into one that has two pairs of wings.
It seems to have appeared in Italy and England (perhaps simultaneous invention) between 1275 and 1300.
Every town wanted one; conquerors seized them as especially precious spoils of war; tourists came to see and hear these machines the way they made pilgrimages to sacred relics. 
Whereas parents in China tend to see preschools primarily as a way of giving children a good start academically, Japanese parents view them primarily as a way of giving children the opportunity to be members of a group.
Whether Head Start is seen as successful or not depends on the lens through which ore is looking.
Not everyone agrees that programs that seek to enhance academic skills during the preschool years are a good thing.
There is no simple or single factor that determines if a given site will be a savanna, but some factors seem to play important roles in their formation.
This may seem contradictory, but it only means that extreme soil conditions, either too wet or too dry for forests, are satisfactory for savannas.
Frequent fire is a factor to which rain forest species seem unable to adapt, although ancient charcoal remains from Amazon forest soils dating prior to the arrival of humans suggest that moist forests also occasionally burn.
On certain sites, particularly in South America, savanna formation seems related to frequent cutting and burning of moist forests for pastureland.
The rate at which a site is colonized by plants depends on both the rate at which individual organisms (seeds, spores, immature or mature individuals) arrive at the site and their success at becoming established and surviving.
A fertile, plowed field is rapidly invaded by a large variety of weeds, whereas a neighboring construction site from which the soil has been compacted or removed to expose a coarse, infertile parent material may remain virtually free of vegetation for many months or even years despite receiving the same input of seeds as the plowed field. 
Pioneer species--- those that occur only in the earliest stages of colonization--- tend to have high rates of invasion because they produce very large numbers of reproductive propagules (seeds, spores, and so on) and because they have an efficient means of dispersal (normally, wind).
Many plants depend on wind for dispersal and produce abundant quantities of small, relatively short-lived seeds to compensate for the fact that wind is not always a reliable means of reaching the appropriate type of habitat.
Alternative strategies have evolved in some plants, such as those that produce fewer but larger seeds that are dispersed to suitable sites by birds or small mammals or those that produce long-lived seeds.
Many forest plants seem to exhibit the latter adaptation, and viable seeds of pioneer species can be found in large numbers on some forest floors.
For example, as many as 1,125 viable seeds per square meter were found in a 100-year-old Douglas fir/western hemlock forest in coastal British Columbia.
Nearly all the seeds that had germinated from this seed bank were from pioneer species.
The rapid colonization of such sites after disturbance is undoubtedly in part a reflection of the large seed bank on the forest floor.
An adaptation that is well developed in colonizing species is a high degree of variation in germination (the beginning of a seed  s growth).
Seeds of a given species exhibit a wide range of germination dates, increasing the probability that at least some of the seeds will germinate during a period of favorable environmental conditions.
The species that are first to colonize a site are those that produce abundant seed that is distributed successfully to new sites.
Many prehistorians believe that farming may have emerged in dependently in several different areas of the world when small communities, driven by increasing population and a decline in available food resources, began to plant seeds in the ground in an effort to guarantee their survival.
The need to oversee the entire process brought about the emergence of an elite that was eventually transformed into a government.
Before the railroad reached Tennessee, the state produced about 25,000 bushels (or 640 tons) of wheat, which sold for less than 50 cents a bushel.
Before A.D. 900, manuscripts of the Koran (the book containing the teachings of the Islamic religion) seem to have been the most common type of book produced and decorated, but after that date a wide range of books were produced for a broad spectrum of patrons.
He called for proof of the protectionist view: that visitations of the ants confer protection on the plants and that in the absence of the protectionist view: that visitations of the ants confer protection on the plants and that in the absence of the insects a much greater number would perish or fail to produce flowers or seeds than when the insects are present.
Grasshoppers feeding on flowers indirectly block pollination and the production of seeds by destroying the corolla or the stigma, which receives the pollen grains and on which the pollen germinates.
Caterpillars and seed beetles affect seed production directly.
Caterpillars devour the ovaries, where the seeds are produced, and seed beetle larvae eat seeds as they burrow in developing fruits.
Observations leave little doubt that ants protect morning glory flowers and fruits from the combined enemy force of grasshoppers, caterpillars, and seed beetles.
Bentley compared the seed production of six plants that grew where there were no ants with that of seventeen plants that were occupied by ants.
Unprotected plants bore only 45 seeds per plant, but plants occupied by ants bore 211 seeds per plant.
Considering that seasonal succession is most often and clearly seen in temperate seas, which have a marked change in temperature during a year, temperature has been suggested as a cause.
The B vitamins, especially vitamin B12, thiamine and biotin, seem to be the most generally required.
The central implication of all these misconceptions was that nothing could live in the abyss (deep), just as Forbes  s observations seemed to indicate.
Kettlewell hypothesized that the normal pale forms are difficult to see when resting on lichen-covered trees, whereas dark forms are conspicuous.
The action of natural selection in producing a small but highly significant step of evolution was seemingly demonstrated, with birds as the selecting force.
The development of modern architecture might in large part be seen as an adaptation of this sort of functional building and its pervasive application for daily use.
Wright  s most dramatic residence, Fallingwater, has balconies that thrust far out over a stream in a way that seems to defy gravity.
It still seems a lot to recall, but what was lost in efficiency was more than made up for in the beauty and richness of the texts.
It seems possible that when Captain James Cook first visited New Zealand in 1769, moa (or at least one of the moa species) may have still survived in the remote areas in the western part of New Zealand  s South Island.
Because major habitat destruction seems to have occurred after moa populations already were depleted, and because some habitat that could have sheltered moa populations remained, it would seem that other factors were also at work in the extinction of these birds.
The mature ponderosa trees have bark two inches thick and are relatively resistant to fire, which instead burns out the understory  the lower layer  of fire-sensitive Douglas fir seedlings that have grown up since the previous fire.
But after only a decade  s growth until the next fire, those young seedling plants are still too low for fire to spread from them into the crowns of the ponderosa pine trees.
and 450 B.C., evolved what Greeks regarded as a fully-fledged democratic constitution, though the light to vote was given to fewer groups of people than is seen in modem times.
This seems to be true for many different groups of animals and plants.
Productivity seems to be involved instead, though perhaps its influence is indirect.
Thus, weaving is a way of seeing the world and being part of it.
In the formation of many species, the initial isolation of a population seems to have been a geographic barrier.
The passage of wind-blown tree pollen is also not hindered by such barriers, and the seeds of many plants may be carried back and forth on animals.
Organisms can also be carried to islands by other organisms, such as sea birds that travel long distances with seeds clinging to their feathers.
Yet Callisto seems to have frozen solid before the process of differentiation was complete.
About one-quarter of its surface seems to be as old and heavily cratered; the rest formed more recently, as we can tell by the sparse covering of impact craters as well as the relative freshness of the craters.
In the next generation thousands of Greek traders and artisans would enter this wider world to seek their fortunes.
Even before Alexander  s time, a life spent in the service of their city-state no longer seemed ideal to Greeks The Athenian philosopher Socrates (470-399 B.C.)
He called this seesaw pattern the Southern Oscillation.
It would seem that they are becoming more frequent.
For the artist, this technique allows forms and linear perspective to be drawn precisely as they would be seen from a single viewpoint.
From an artist  s point of view, Hockney observed that a camera obscura compresses the complicated forms of a three-dimensional scene into two-dimensional shapes that can easily be traced and also increases the contrast between light and dark, leading to the chiaroscuro effect seen in many of these paintings.
Most seagrass beds seem tolerant of considerable changes in salinity (salt levels) and can be found in brackish (somewhat salty) waters as well as in full- strength seawater.
The argument seemed to be at a standstill until a number of recent studies resulted in a spectacular suite of new finds.
A mixture of continuous but thin vegetation supporting herds of large mammals is one that seems plausible and realistic with the available data.
Wind pollination is often seen as being primitive and wasteful in costly pollen and yet it is surprisingly common, especially in higher latitudes.
Once seen by the natives, such objects created a fashion which rapidly spread through the province. 
The transition between the Ming and Qing dynasties (the seventeenth century) may have seen a decline, but from 1741 to 1851 the annual figures rose steadily and spectacularly, perhaps beginning with 143 million and ending with 432 million.
From 1400 to 1900 the total of irrigated land seems to have increased almost three times.
In the chest cavity of this specimen, which is housed in the Senckenberg Museum in Germany, are the fossil remains of conifer needles, twigs, seeds, and fruits.
However, before we look at its influence, let  s see how the heat island actually forms.
These have changed constantly through time, even in relatively recent periods, as can be seen from the Neolithic stone circle of Er Lannic, in Brittany, France (once inland but now half submerged on an island) or medieval villages in east Yorkshire, England, that have tumbled into the sea in the last few centuries as the North Sea gnaws its way westward and erodes the cliffs.
Europe  s economic institutions, particularly those in England, were strong, had wealth available for new investment, and seemed almost to be waiting for some technological breakthrough that would expand their profit-making potential even more.
In the sixteenth century enclosures were usually used for creating sheep pastures, but by the eighteenth century new farming techniques made it advantageous for large landowners to seek enclosures in order to improve agricultural production.
It was such people who began to flock to the cities seeking employment and who found work in the factories that would transform the nation and, the worl
