At first thought it seems incredible that there can be enough space in the   solid   ground underfoot to hold all this water. 
One necessary condition seems to be a somewhat detached view of human problems.
Cave art seems to have reached a peak toward the end of the Upper Paleolithic period, when the herds of game were decreasing. 
Consistent with this idea, according to the investigators, is the fact that the art of the cultural period that followed the Upper Paleolithic also seems to reflect how people got their food.
Petroleum, consisting of crude oil and natural gas, seems to originate from organic matter in marine sediment.
Contrary to the arguments of some that much of the pacific was settled by Polynesians accidentally marooned after being lost and adrift, it seems reasonable that this feat was accomplished by deliberate colonization expeditions that set out fully stocked with food and domesticated plants and animals.
The origin of multicellular forms of life seems a relatively simple step compared to the origin of life itself.
Another seemingly plausible explanation  that infants do not form enduring memories at this point in development  also is incorrect.
Three other explanations seem more promising.
Telling such stories to two year olds does not seem to produce long-lasting verbalizable memories.
Thus, all three explanations  physiological maturation, hearing and producing stories about past events, and improved encoding of key aspects of events  seem likely to be involved in overcoming infantile amnesia.
Agriculture seems to have reached these people from the Near East, since the first domesticated crops were millets and sorghums whose origins are not African but west Asian.
It seems likely that Teotihuac  n  s natural resources, along with the city elite  s ability to recognize their potential, gave the city a competitive edge over its neighbors.
So the unusually high concentration of Ir seems to require a special explanation.
These flow features are extensive systems  sometimes hundreds of kilometers in total length  of interconnecting, twisting channels that seem to merge into larger, wider channels.
Furthermore, Mars Global Surveyor data released in 2003 seem to indicate that the Martian surface contains too few carbonate rock layers  layers containing compounds of carbon and oxygen  that should have been formed in abundance in an ancient ocean.
Just as painted designs on Greek pots may seem today to be purely decorative, whereas in fact they were carefully and precisely worked out so that at the time, their meaning was clear, so it is with Chinese pots.
Much of the potential for European economic development lay in what at first glance would seem to have been only sleepy villages.
Why do the artists seem to get left and right confused?
They seemed to be using the Sun as a compass to determine direction.
At the time, this idea seemed preposterous.
Many signals that animals make seem to impose on the signalers costs that are overly damaging.
Their members command and dispense many of the rewards that are so vital to us and that make our lives seem worthwhile.
Such an external cue not only coordinates an animal's daily rhythms with particular features of the local solar day but also  because it normally does so day after day-seems to keep the internal clock's period close to that of Earth's rotation.
Inequalities of gender have also existed in pastoralist societies, but they seem to have been softened by the absence of steep hierarchies of wealth in most communities, and also by the requirement that women acquire most of the skills of men, including, often, their military skills.
A warm-blooded turtle may seem to be a contradiction in terms.
Possibilities for trade seemed promising, but no hope existed for maintaining the traditional routes over land A new way had to be found.
The ants also eat yellow structures at the tip of leaflets: these are protein rich and seem to have no function for the tree except to attract ants.
Such yawning is often referred to as "incongruous" because it seems out of place, at least on the tiredness view: soldiers yawning before combat, musicians yawning before performing, and athletes yawning before competing.
Their yawning seems to have nothing to do with sleepiness or boredom  quite the reverse  but it does precede a change in activity level.
"Old America seemed to be breaking up and moving westward," observed an English visitor in 1817, during the first great wave of migration.
improvements in memory seem to occur.
Nature now seemed able to speak for itself, with a minimum of interference.
They were also afraid of it, because it seemed likely to make their own efforts unnecessary.
It seems very unlikely that large portions of the nebula were heated to such extreme temperatures, and huge nebula areas could not possibly have lost heat so fast.
Certain features of these engravings lead to the conclusion that they are of great age  geological changes had clearly happened after the designs had been made and local Aboriginal informants, when first questioned about them, seemed to know nothing of their origins.
Motifs of seeming simplicity can encode complex meanings in Aboriginal Australia.
the political and economic life of the cities was centered on their temples, but it now seems probable that the cities had secular rulers from earliest times.
In the 1840s American geologist James Daly observed that the different Hawaii Islands seem to share a similar geologic evolution but are progressively more eroded, and therefore probably older, toward the northwest.
Thus, both factors can affect the cycle, which, in practice, seems to be generated by the conjunction of the two factors.
It is still unclear whether domesticated cattle were tamed independently in northern Africa or introduced to the continent from Southwest Asia.Whatever the source of the original tamed herds might have been, it seems entirely likely that much the same process of juxtaposition (living side by side) and control occurred in both Southwest Asia and northern Africa, and even in Europe, among peoples who had an intimate knowledge of the behavior of wild cattle.
Numerous seeming exceptions to this law have since been found, but they can usually be explained as cases in which the two species, even though competing for a major joint resource, did not really occupy exactly the same niche.
No one knows exactly when the waterwheel was invented, but irrigation systems existed at least 5,000 years ago, and it seems probable that the earliest waterpower device was the noria, a waterwheel that raised water for irrigation in attached jars.
The earliest waterpower mills were probably vertical-axis mills for grinding corn, known as Norse or Greek mills, which seem to have appeared during the first or second century B.C.
Many species appear to remain unchanged in the fossil record for millions of years    a situation that seems to be at odds with Darwin  s model of continuous change.
A convincing 50-million-year sequence of modern horse ancestors    each slightly larger, with more complex teeth, a longer face, and a more prominent central toe    seemed to provide strong support for Darwin  s contention that species evolve gradually.
If it seems difficult to conceive how major changes could occur rapidly, consider this: An alteration of a single gene in flies is enough to turn a normal fly with a single pair of wings into one that has two pairs of wings.
It seems to have appeared in Italy and England (perhaps simultaneous invention) between 1275 and 1300.
There is no simple or single factor that determines if a given site will be a savanna, but some factors seem to play important roles in their formation.
This may seem contradictory, but it only means that extreme soil conditions, either too wet or too dry for forests, are satisfactory for savannas.
Frequent fire is a factor to which rain forest species seem unable to adapt, although ancient charcoal remains from Amazon forest soils dating prior to the arrival of humans suggest that moist forests also occasionally burn.
On certain sites, particularly in South America, savanna formation seems related to frequent cutting and burning of moist forests for pastureland.
Many forest plants seem to exhibit the latter adaptation, and viable seeds of pioneer species can be found in large numbers on some forest floors.
Before A.D. 900, manuscripts of the Koran (the book containing the teachings of the Islamic religion) seem to have been the most common type of book produced and decorated, but after that date a wide range of books were produced for a broad spectrum of patrons.
The B vitamins, especially vitamin B12, thiamine and biotin, seem to be the most generally required.
The central implication of all these misconceptions was that nothing could live in the abyss (deep), just as Forbes  s observations seemed to indicate.
The action of natural selection in producing a small but highly significant step of evolution was seemingly demonstrated, with birds as the selecting force.
Wright  s most dramatic residence, Fallingwater, has balconies that thrust far out over a stream in a way that seems to defy gravity.
It still seems a lot to recall, but what was lost in efficiency was more than made up for in the beauty and richness of the texts.
It seems possible that when Captain James Cook first visited New Zealand in 1769, moa (or at least one of the moa species) may have still survived in the remote areas in the western part of New Zealand  s South Island.
Because major habitat destruction seems to have occurred after moa populations already were depleted, and because some habitat that could have sheltered moa populations remained, it would seem that other factors were also at work in the extinction of these birds.
This seems to be true for many different groups of animals and plants.
Productivity seems to be involved instead, though perhaps its influence is indirect.
In the formation of many species, the initial isolation of a population seems to have been a geographic barrier.
Yet Callisto seems to have frozen solid before the process of differentiation was complete.
About one-quarter of its surface seems to be as old and heavily cratered; the rest formed more recently, as we can tell by the sparse covering of impact craters as well as the relative freshness of the craters.
Even before Alexander  s time, a life spent in the service of their city-state no longer seemed ideal to Greeks The Athenian philosopher Socrates (470-399 B.C.)
It would seem that they are becoming more frequent.
Most seagrass beds seem tolerant of considerable changes in salinity (salt levels) and can be found in brackish (somewhat salty) waters as well as in full- strength seawater.
The argument seemed to be at a standstill until a number of recent studies resulted in a spectacular suite of new finds.
A mixture of continuous but thin vegetation supporting herds of large mammals is one that seems plausible and realistic with the available data.
From 1400 to 1900 the total of irrigated land seems to have increased almost three times.
Europe  s economic institutions, particularly those in England, were strong, had wealth available for new investment, and seemed almost to be waiting for some technological breakthrough that would expand their profit-making potential even more.
