Modern architectural forms generally have three separate components comparable to elements of the human body: a supporting skeleton or frame, an outer skin enclosing the interior spaces, and equipment, similar to the body  s vital organs and systems.
That invention was the arch, a curved structure originally made of separate stone or brick segments.
Roman builders perfected the semicircular arch made of separate blocks of stone.
At a refinery, the crude oil from underground is separated into natural gas, gasoline, kerosene, and various oils.
In the 1760s, James Watt perfected a separate condenser for the steam, so that the cylinder did not have to be cooled at every stroke; then he devised a way to make the piston turn a wheel and thus convert reciprocating (back and forth) motion into rotary motion.
The arms could be held away from the body and carry separate items in their hands; there is no back pillar.
Indeed, sites with engravings of geometric shapes are also to be found on the island of Tasmania, which was separated from the mainland of the continent some 10,000 years ago.
The widespread distribution of pastoral sites of this period suggests that the Saharans ranged their herds over widely separated summer and winter grazing grounds. 
These episodes of rapid evolution are separated by relatively long static spans during which a species may hardly change at all.
Evolutionary biologists believe that speciation, the formation of a new species, often begins when some kind of physical barrier arises and divides a population of a single species into separate subpopulations.
In general, the subpopulations of most species are separated from each other by some measurable distance.
The change separated populations of insects now living along opposite shore, completely cutting off gene flow between them.
When the glaciers retreated, the separated populations of plants and animals came into contact again.
Some groups that had descended from the same parent population were no longer reproductively compatible  they had evolved into separate species.
When the two bees hit the ground, they separated, faced off, and performed another aerial display.
In some cases, the physical division within the first cities reflected the strict hierarchical character of the society as a whole, with a royal palace surrounded by an imposing wall and separate from the remainder of the urban population.
After a series of observations, Watt saw that the Newcomen  s waste of energy could be reduced by adding a separate condenser.
Such buildings, however, were viewed in a category separate from   fine   architecture, and in fact were often designed by engineers and builders rather than architects.
Resolving power is the ability of an optical instrument to show two objects as separate.
Scholars have detected some 6,000 separate hieroglyphic characters in use over the history of Egyptian writing, but it appears that never more than a thousand were in use during any one period.
Between 80 and 85 million years ago, Gondwanaland, a giant continent made up of what today is Africa, Antarctica, Australia, and South America, broke up, thus causing what is now New Zealand to become separated from the larger landmass.
With its gene pool isolated, a separate population can follow its own evolutionary course.
Similarly, a creeping glacier may gradually divide a population, or a land bridge such as the Isthmus of Panama may form and separate the marine life in the ocean waters on either side.
For example, the Grand Canyon, in the southwestern United States, separates the range of the white-tailed antelope squirrel from that of the closely related Harris' antelope squirrel.
Callisto has not fully differentiated, meaning separated into layers of different density materials.
For example, water depth and turbidity (density of particles in the water) together or separately control the amount of light available to the plants and the depth to which the seagrasses may extend.
The effect of desiccation is often difficult to separate from the effect of temperature.
The individual traveling merchant who alone handled virtually all aspects of exchange evolved into an operation invoh/ing three separate types of merchants: the sedentary merchant who ran the "home office," financing and organizing the firm  s entire export-import trade; the carriers who transported goods by land and sea; and the company agents resident in cities abroad who, on the advice of the home office, looked after sales and procurements.
