It had over 2,000 apartment complexes, a great market, a large number of industrial workshops, an administrative center, a number of massive religious edifices, and a regular grid pattern of streets and buildings.
Production was generally in the hands of skilled individual artisans doing piecework under the tutelage of a master who was also the shop owner.
In these shops differences of rank were blurred as artisans and masters labored side by side in the same modest establishment, were usually members of the same guild and religious sect, lived in the same neighborhoods, and often had assumed (or real) kinship relationships.
Also, a specialized metal-producing workshop may have been excavated in a small area at Uruk.
This has been interpreted as the remains of a workshop where molten metal was scooped up from the channel and poured into molds in the holes.
Books became major vehicles for artistic expression, and the artists who produced them, notably calligraphers and painters, enjoyed high status, and their workshops were often sponsored by princes and their courts.
Grasshoppers feeding on flowers indirectly block pollination and the production of seeds by destroying the corolla or the stigma, which receives the pollen grains and on which the pollen germinates.
An adult grasshopper can consume a large corolla, about 2.5 inches long, in an hour.
Observations leave little doubt that ants protect morning glory flowers and fruits from the combined enemy force of grasshoppers, caterpillars, and seed beetles.
Although ants are not big enough to kill or seriously injure grasshoppers, they drive them away by nipping at their feet.
Seed beetles are more vulnerable because they are much smaller than grasshoppers.
Local workshops did develop and stylistically similar groups of sculpture show how skills in this new medium became widerspread.
Europe in the fifteenth century was a place where intermediate technology-that is, workshops with skilled craftspeople-was well established and spreading fast, especially in Germany and Italy.
Such workshops were able to take on printing easily, and it thus became Europe's first true industry.
The old monastic scriptoria-monastery workshops where monks copied texts by hand-worked closely alongside the new presses, continuing to produce the luxury goods that movable-type printing could not yet supply.
Their most successful scriptorium quickly imported two leading German printers to set up presses in their book-producing shop.
