Other features, however, show experts that Pakicetus is a transitional form between a group of extinct flesh-eating mammals, the mesonychids, and cetaceans.
The structure of the backbone shows, however, that Ambulocetus swam like modern whales by moving the rear portion of its body up and down, even though a fluke was missing.
The cinema did not emerge as a form of mass consumption until its technology evolved from the initial "peepshow" format to the point where images were projected on a screen in a darkened theater.
In the peepshow format, a film was viewed through a small opening in a machine that was created for that purpose.
Thomas Edison's peepshow device, the Kinetoscope, was introduced to the public in 1894.
About a year after the opening of the first Kinetoscope parlor in 1894, showmen such as Louis and Auguste Lumiere, Thomas Armat and Charles Francis Jenkins, and Orville and Woodville Latham (with the assistance of Edison's former assistant, William Dickson) perfected projection devices.
These early projection devices were used in vaudeville theaters, legitimate theaters, local town halls, makeshift storefront theaters, fairgrounds, and amusement parks to show films to a mass audience.
Previously, large audiences had viewed spectacles at the theater, where vaudeville, popular dramas, musical and minstrel shows, classical plays, lectures, and slide-and-lantern shows had been presented to several hundred spectators at a time.
But the movies differed significantly from these other forms of entertainment, which depended on either live performance or (in the case of the slide-and-lantern shows) the active involvement of a master of ceremonies who assembled the final program.
With the advent of projection, the viewer's relationship with the image was no longer private, as it had been with earlier peepshow devices such as the Kinetoscope and the Mutoscope, which was a similar machine that reproduced motion by means of successive images on individual photographic cards instead of on strips of celluloid.
At the same time, the image that the spectator looked at expanded from the minuscule peepshow dimensions of 1 or 2 inches (in height) to the life-size proportions of 6 or 9 feet.
We might expect that early artistic efforts would be crude, but the cave paintings of Spain and southern France show a marked degree of skill.
But if improving their hunting luck was the chief motivation for the paintings, it is difficult to explain why only a few show signs of having been speared.
Research has shown that certain minerals are required by plants for normal growth and development.
Contrary to these theorists, the overwhelming evidence of physical anthropology, linguistics, and archaeology shows that the Pacific islanders came from Southeast Asia and were skilled enough as navigators to sail against the prevailing winds and currents.
Fossil formations like the Burgess Shale show that evolution cannot always be thought of as a slow progression.
Watt's steam engine soon showed what it could do.
It was actually a principle of floral succession as well, because plants showed the same transformation through time as did fauna.
Moreover, recent research on obsidian tools found at Olmec sites has shown that some of the obsidian obtained by the Olmecs originated near Teotihuac  n. Teotihuac  n obsidian must have been recognized as a valuable commodity for many centuries before the great city arose.
At the end of the Cretaceous, the geological record shows that these seaways retreated from the continents back into the major ocean basins.
Their calculations show that the impact kicked up a dust cloud that cut off sunlight for several months, inhibiting photosynthesis in plants; decreased surface temperatures on continents to below freezing; caused extreme episodes of acid rain; and significantly raised long-term global temperatures through the greenhouse effect.
A 2003 Mars Global Surveyor image shows what mission specialists think may be a delta  a fan-shaped network of channels and sediments where a river once flowed into a larger body of water, in this case a lake filling a crater in the southern highlands.
A computer-generated view of the Martian north polar region shows the extent of what may have been an ancient ocean covering much of the northern lowlands.
Proponents point to features such as the terraced   beaches   shown in one image, which could conceivably have been left behind as a lake or ocean evaporated and the shoreline receded.
What we do know is that as we include longer time intervals, the record shows increasing evidence of slow swings in climate between different regimes.
Thus it made sense to show the statue looking ahead at what was happening in front of it, so that the living performer of the ritual could interact with the divine or deceased recipient.
Unlike formal statues that are limited to static poses of standing, sitting, and kneeling, these figures depict a wide range of actions, such as grinding grain, baking bread, producing pots, and making music, and they are shown in appropriate poses, bending and squatting as they carry out their tasks.
Whether the box appeared in front of the right wall or the left wall, they showed no signs of confusion.
As these experiments show, begging apparently provides a signal of need that parents use to make judgments about which offspring can benefit most from a feeding.
If the infant fails to dishabituate and continues to show habituation with the new stimulus, it is assumed that the baby is unable to perceive the new stimulus as different.
However, research has shown that children often have difficulty understanding disclaimers: children may interpret the phrase "when part of a nutritionally balanced breakfast" to mean that the cereal is required as a necessary part of a balanced breakfast.
Host selling occurs, for example, when a children's show about a cartoon lion contains an ad in which the same lion promotes a breakfast cereal.
The psychologist Dale Kunkel showed that the practice of host selling reduced children's ability to distinguish between advertising and program material.
The fossil record shows at least five mass extinctions in which many families of marine organisms died out.
A search of sedimentary deposits that span the boundary between the Cretaceous and Tertiary periods shows that there is a dramatic increase in the abundance of iridium briefly and precisely at this boundary.
Records show merchant caravans and trading posts set up by the Sumerians in the surrounding mountains and deserts of Persia and Arabia, where they traded grain for raw materials, such as timber and stones, as well as for metals and gems.
In fact, subsequent work has shown that in a periodic table, elements should not be ordered strictly by atomic mass.
The data showed that yawning tended to occur about 15 minutes before a period of increased behavioral activity.
Hundreds of tiny plant remains show how the inhabitants exploited nut harvests in nearby pistachio and oak forests.
Many complex factors led to the adoption of the new economies, not only at Abu Hureyra, but at many other locations such as 'Ain Ghazal, also in Syria, where goat toe bones showing the telltale marks of abrasion caused by foot tethering (binding) testify to early herding of domestic stock.
This facility was then in its third decade of production and was beginning to show signs of decline, perhaps because of over development.
Furthermore, as the archaeological record shows, the state of health of agriculturalists was worse than that of their contemporary hunter-gatherers.
However, even children with low verbal skills showed evidence of remembering the event; thus, memories may be facilitated by but are not dependent on those verbal skills.
The development of an understanding of the self becomes evident between the first and second years of life and shows rapid elaboration in subsequent years.
It is interesting to note that some studies show Caucasian American children have earlier childhood memories than Korean children do.
Furthermore, other studies show that Caucasian American mother-child pairs talk about past events three times more often than do Korean mother-child pairs.
And has not twentieth-century art shown that naturalism does not necessarily follow abstraction in some kind of predetermine sequence?
The surface of Mars shows a wide range of geologic features, including huge volcanoes-the largest known in the solar system-and extensive impact cratering.
All four show distinctive lava channels and other flow features similar to those found on shield volcanoes on Earth.
DNA comparisons have shown that green algae are plants' closest living relatives.
It contained a number of channels lined by a sequence of holes, about 50 centimeters deep, all showing burn marks and filled with ashes.
Similarly, the late Uruk period shows the first monumental art, relief, and statuary in the round, made with a degree of mastery that only a professional could have produced.
Although this idea was not immediately accepted, the dating of lavas in the Hawaii (and other) chains showed that their ages increase away from the presently active volcano, just as Daly had suggested.
The Canada lynx shows a ten-year cycle of abundance that parallels the abundance cycle of hares.
When people today are shown a very ordinary Roman pot and, in particular, are allowed to handle it, they often comment on how modern it looks and feels, and they need to be convinced of its true age.
But maps that show the various spots where Roman pottery of a particular type has been found tell only part of the story.
Determining the functions of play is difficult because the functions may be long-term, with beneficial effects not showing up until the animal  s adulthood.
At the end of the experiments, the results showed that the actual weight of the brains of the impoverished rats was less than that of those raised in the enriched environment (though they were fed the same diets).
Other studies have shown that greater stimulation not only affects the size of the brain but also increases the number of connections between the nerve cells.
Although graduates of Head Start programs tend to show immediate IQ gains, these increases do lot last.
Finally, some research suggests that ultimately Head Start graduates show higher academic performance at the end of high school, although the gains are modest. 
For instance, compared with children who did not participate in early intervention programs, participants in various programs showed gains in emotional or cognitive development, better educational outcomes, increased economic self-sufficiency, reduced level of criminal activity, and improved health-related behaviors.
They predicted that the colonies of aggressive species would show regular distributions, while those of nonaggressive species would show random or closely grouped (clumped) distribution.
What did these measurements show the researchers?
One example shows how ants attracted to extrafloral nectaries protect morning glories against attacking insects.
Resolving power is the ability of an optical instrument to show two objects as separate.
The light microscope cannot resolve detail finer than 0.2 micrometers, about the size of the smallest bacterium; consequently, no matter how many times its image of such a bacterium is magnified, the light microscope cannot show the details of the cell  s internal structure.
Recently it has been shown that some North American frog and toad speeds can survive up to five days with a body temperature of -6*0 with approximately one-third of their body fluids frozen.
The Galapagos island chain is one of the world's greatest showcases of evolution.
Sampling on the continental shelves and along the base of the continental slopes has shown that fine muds beneath the seafloor contain up to 8 percent organic matter.
The room shown in it closely resembles the room in other Vermeer paintings, with lighting coming from a window on the left, the same roof beams, and similar floor tiles, suggesting that the room was fitted with a camera obscura on the side in the foreground.
Although marine botanist W. A. Setchell suggested early on that temperature was critical to the growth and reproduction of eelgrass, it has since been shown that this particularly widespread seagrass grows and reproduces at temperatures between 2 and 4 degrees Celsius in the Arctic and at temperatures up to 28 degrees Celsius on the northeastern coast of the United States.
Its detail shows that it was carved by artists from northeast Gaul.
Local workshops did develop and stylistically similar groups of sculpture show how skills in this new medium became widerspread.
Both exports and imports showed spectacular growth, particularly in England and France.
