For example, one sign of this condition is the appearance of the comic vision, since comedy requires sufficient detachment to view some deviations from social norms as ridiculous rather than as serious threats to the welfare of the entire group.
It was designed for use in Kinetoscope parlors, or arcades, which contained only a few individual machines and permitted only one customer to view a short, 50-foot film at any one time.
But the movies differed significantly from these other forms of entertainment, which depended on either live performance or (in the case of the slide-and-lantern shows) the active involvement of a master of ceremonies who assembled the final program.
Architecture is the art and science of designing structures that organize and enclose space for practical and symbolic purposes.
The mediocre design of many contemporary buildings can be traced to both clients and architects.
They are designed to withstand the forces of compression (pushing together), tension (pulling apart), bending, or a combination of these in different parts of the structure.
Materials and methods of construction are integral parts of the design of architecture structures.
In earlier times it was necessary to design structural systems suitable for the materials that were available, such as wood, stone, brick.
Ogallala water has enabled the High Plains region to supply significant amounts of the cotton, sorghum, wheat, and corn grown in the United States.
The researchers Peter Ucko and Andree Rosenfeld identified three principal locations of paintings in the caves of western Europe: (1) in obviously inhabited rock shelters and cave entrances; (2) in galleries immediately off the inhabited areas of caves; and (3) in the inner reaches of caves, whose difficulty of access has been interpreted by some as a sign that magical-religious activities were performed there. 
But if improving their hunting luck was the chief motivation for the paintings, it is difficult to explain why only a few show signs of having been speared.
The particular symbolic significance of the cave paintings in southwestern France is more explicitly revealed, perhaps, by the results of a study conducted by researchers Patricia Rice and Ann Paterson.
A significant part of this oil and gas comes from under the North Sea between Great Britain and Norway. 
The geologic timescale is marked by significant geologic and biological events, including the origin of Earth about 4.6 billion years ago, the origin of life about 3.5 billion years ago, the origin of eukaryotic life-forms (living things that have cells with true nuclei) about 1.5 billion years ago, and the origin of animals about 0.6 billion years ago.
At one time, the animals present in these fossil beds were assigned to various modern animal groups, but most paleontologists now agree that all Tommotian fossils represent unique body forms that arose in the early Cambrian period and disappeared before the end of the period, leaving no descendants in modern animal groups.
These fossil beds provide evidence of about 32 modern animal groups, plus about 20 other animal body forms that are so different from any modern animals that they cannot be assigned to any one of the modern groups.
These unassignable animals include a large swimming predator called Anomalocaris and a soft-bodied animal called Wiwaxia, which ate detritus or algae.
This   atmospheric engine,   invented by Thomas Savery and vastly improved by his partner, Thomas Newcomen, embodied revolutionary principles, but it was so slow and wasteful of fuel that it could not be employed outside the coal mines for which it had been designed.
Like the stone of Roman wall, which were held together both by the regularity of the design and by that peculiarly powerful Roman cement, so the various parts of the Roman realm were bonded into a massive, monolithic entity by physical, organizational, and psychological controls.
The exact role of other factors is much more difficult to pinpoint Dfor instance, Teotihuac  n  s religious significance as a shrine, the historical situation in and around the Valley of Mexico toward the end of the first millennium B.C., the ingenuity and foresightedness of Teotihuac  n  s elite, and, finally, the impact of natural disasters, such as the volcanic eruptions of the late first millennium B.C.
Teotihuac  n may have achieved some religious significance and its shrine (or shrines) may have served as an additional population magnet.
Their calculations show that the impact kicked up a dust cloud that cut off sunlight for several months, inhibiting photosynthesis in plants; decreased surface temperatures on continents to below freezing; caused extreme episodes of acid rain; and significantly raised long-term global temperatures through the greenhouse effect.
They designed an experimental strategy for a group of teachers in Virginia and worked with 40 practicing teachers over several years.
It is significant that the earliest living things that built communities on these islands are examples of symbiosis, a phenomenon that depends upon the close cooperation of two or more forms of life and a principle that is very important in island communities. 
The Chinese themselves adapted many specific vessel forms from the West, such as bottles with long spouts, and designed a range of decorative patterns especially for the European market.
Just as painted designs on Greek pots may seem today to be purely decorative, whereas in fact they were carefully and precisely worked out so that at the time, their meaning was clear, so it is with Chinese pots.
To twentieth-century eyes, Chinese pottery may appear merely decorative, yet to the Chinese the form of each object and its adornment had meaning and significance.
We know that over the past millennia the climate has undergone major changes without any significant human intervention.
While these records provide broadly consistent indications that temperature variations can occur on a global scale, there are nonetheless some intriguing differences, which suggest that the pattern of temperature variations in regional climates can also differ significantly from each other.
What the proxy records make abundantly clear is that there have been significant natural changes in the climate over timescales longer than a few thousand years.
Only iron smelting and mining required marshaling a significant amount of capital (wealth invested to create more wealth).
They were designed to be put in places where these beings could manifest themselves in order to be the recipients of ritual actions.
Other statues were designed to be placed within an architectural setting, for instance, in front of the monumental entrance gateways to temples known as pylons, or in pillared courts, where they would be placed against or between pillars: their frontality worked perfectly within the architectural context.
Whether the box appeared in front of the right wall or the left wall, they showed no signs of confusion.
Many signals that animals make seem to impose on the signalers costs that are overly damaging.
The eggs   advertised   by the tree-nesters' begging calls were found bitten significantly more often than the eggs associated with the ground-nesters' calls.
The hypothesis that begging calls have evolved properties that reduce their potential for attracting predators yields a prediction: baby birds of species that experience high rates of nest predation should produce softer begging signals of higher frequency than nestlings of other species less often victimized by nest predators.
One possibility is that a noisy baby bird provides accurate signals of its real hunger and good health, making it worthwhile for the listening parent to give it food in a nest where several other offspring are usually available to be fed.
If this hypothesis is true, then it follows that nestlings should adjust the intensity of their signals in relation to the signals produced by their nestmates, who are competing for parental attention.
As these experiments show, begging apparently provides a signal of need that parents use to make judgments about which offspring can benefit most from a feeding.
have survived; the signs of rubbing on their left side indicate that their users were right-handed.
More often, we simply cooperate with others to reach some end without endowing the relationship with any larger significance.
Animals need natural periodic signals like sunrise to maintain a cycle whose period is precisely 24 hours.
Perhaps the most striking sign of mobility is the fact that by the third millennium B.C., most pastoralists in this huge region spoke related languages ancestral to the modern Indo-European languages.
Indium, for example, had previously been assigned an atomic mass between those of arsenic and selenium.
Mendeleyev designated this element "eka-aluminum" (eka is the Sanskrit word for "next") and predicted its properties.
Shortly after 1400, shipbuilders began developing a new type of vessel properly designed to operate in rough, open water: the caravel.
In the varied and constantly changing light environment of the forest, an animal must be able to send visual signals to members of its own species and at the same time avoid being detected by predators.
Some also signal by changing color.
By this means, they signal their level of aggression or readiness to mate.
A signal might be most easily seen if it is maximally bright.
In the green-to-yellow lighting conditions of the lowest levels of the forest, yellow and green would be the brightest colors, but when an animal is signaling, these colors would not be very visible if the animal was sitting in an area with a yellowish or greenish background.
The best signal depends not only on its brightness but also on how well it contrasts with the background against which it must be seen.
In this part of the rain forest, therefore, red and orange are the best colors for signaling, and they are the colors used in signals by the ground-walking Australian brush turkey.
During courtship and aggressive displays, the turkey enlarges its colored neck collar by inflating sacs in the neck region and then flings about a pendulous part of the colored signaling apparatus as it utters calls designed to attract or repel.
Less colorful birds and animals that inhabit the rain forest tend to rely on other forms of signaling other than the visual, particularly over long distances.
In forests, visual signals can be seen only at short distances, where they are not obstructed by trees.
The male riflebird exploits both of these modes of signaling simultaneously in his courtship display.
In contrast to parasitism, in commensalism, one partner benefits without significantly affecting the other.
All had immediate access to the sea, and this had important implications for a significant international resource, fish, as well as for cheap transport, merchant marines, and the shipbuilding industry.
This, along with other policy shifts toward free trade, resulted in a significant increase in traffic through the Sound and in the port of Copenhagen.
The political institutions of the four countries posed no significant barriers to industrialization or economic growth.
It is almost certainly doing something significant in adults as well as in fetuses.
In all these diverse regions, Agassiz saw signs of glacial erosion and sedimentation.
This facility was then in its third decade of production and was beginning to show signs of decline, perhaps because of over development.
Later on, it became very difficult to change because of the significant expansion of these populations.
But in the countryside materials have a significantly lower heat capacity because a vegetative blanket prevents heat from easily flowing into and out of the ground.
However, land reclamation decreased significantly after the middle of the seventeenth century because the price of agricultural products began to fall, making land reclamation far less profitable in the second part of the century. 
The most significant data have come from a concentration on three major questions.
Certain features of these engravings lead to the conclusion that they are of great age  geological changes had clearly happened after the designs had been made and local Aboriginal informants, when first questioned about them, seemed to know nothing of their origins.
Furthermore, the designs were covered with   desert varnish,   a glaze that develops on rock surfaces over thousands of years of exposure to the elements.
In the late 1700s James Watt designed an efficient and commercially viable steam engine that was soon applied to a variety of industrial uses as it became cheaper to use.
Some plants are woody in type    an adaptation designed to prevent collapse of the plant tissue when water stress produces wilting.
A more economical approach was to use a sign to express not a whole word but a single syllable.
Whenever a word including a syllable in which the sound   sag   was to be written, the sign for   sag" could be used to express that syllable with the remaining syllables of the word expressed by other signs.)
the number of signs required had been reduced to 600, and the range of words that could be expressed had widened.
A conspicuous sign indicating the presence of white-tailed deer in a woodlot is a buck rub.
When completed, the buck rub is an obvious visual signal to us and presumably to other deer in the area.
The information conveyed by the olfactory signals on a buck rub make it the social equivalent of some auditory signals in other deer species, such as trumpeting by bull elk.
Another visual signal produced by white-tailed deer is termed a buck scrape.
Thus, like a buck rub, a scrape is both a visual and an olfactory signal.
With handmade pottery, inevitably there are slight differences between individual vessels of the same design and occasional minor blemishes (flaws).
Many Roman pots, in particular amphorae and the fine wares designed for use at tables, could travel hundreds of miles  all over the Mediterranean and also further afield.
What is more significant than any geographical spread is the access that different levels of society had to good-quality products.
The period from about 1650 until 1800 saw some excellent scientific and technical investigations of different designs.
The growth of the electric-power industry was the result of a remarkable series of scientific discoveries and developments in electrotechnology during the nineteenth century, but significant changes in what we might now call hydro (water) technology also played their part.
Thus, many species have evolved clear signals to delineate playfulness.
No significant discontinuities were observed, leading Sheldon to conclude that environmental conditions were quite stable during the period he examined. 
All this was compatible with older devices so long as there was only one authoritative timekeeper; but with urban growth and the multiplication of time signals, discrepancy brought discord and strife.
The result was relentless pressure to improve technique and design.
This is significant because Pacific seawater is typically 2 to 3 degrees cooler than seawater on the Atlantic side of Isthmus.
This is significant because the amino acid sequence of an enzyme is determined by genes. 
Preschools---educational programs for children under the age of five---differ significantly from one country to another according to the views that different societies hold regarding the purpose of early childhood education.
While many programs designed for preschoolers focus primarily on social and emotional factors, some are geared mainly toward promoting cognitive gains and preparing preschoolers for the formal instruction they will experience when they start kindergarten.
In the United States, the best-known program designed to promote future academic success is Head Start.
The program, which stresses parental involvement, was designed to serve the   whole child  , including children  s physical health, self-confidence, social responsibility, and social and emotional development.
The most recent comprehensive evaluation of early intervention programs suggests that, taken as a group, preschools programs can provide significant benefits, and that government funds invested early in life may ultimately lead to a reduction in future costs.
Experiments suggest that if fire did not occur in savannas in the Americas, species composition would change significantly.
There is generally little doubt that fire is a significant factor in maintaining savanna, certainly in most regions.
The increase in food production in these regions led to a significant growth in population, while efforts to control the flow of water to maximize the irrigation of cultivated areas and to protect the local inhabitants from hostile forces outside the community provoked the first steps toward cooperative activities on a large scale.
Nevertheless, climatic explanations for the K-T extinction are not really challenged by the ideas that dinosaurs may have been endothermic, because even endotherms can be affected by a significant change in the climate.
But the effect of secretions by all the individuals of the dominant species can be significant both for themselves and for other species.
In addition, mammals such as moles, field mice, gophers, and prairie dogs sometimes are present in sufficient numbers to have significant impact on the soil.
In 1841 Edward Forbes was offered the chance to serve as naturalist aboard HMS Beacon, an English Royal Navy ship assigned to survey the Aegean Sea.
The action of natural selection in producing a small but highly significant step of evolution was seemingly demonstrated, with birds as the selecting force.
Such buildings, however, were viewed in a category separate from   fine   architecture, and in fact were often designed by engineers and builders rather than architects.
These dramatic balconies quickly became a signature of modern architects such as Frank Lloyd Wright.
The ways in which new technology transformed architectural design are dramatically illustrated through the evolution of the high-rise office building.
Despite significant numbers being harvested and having suffered occasional declines, typically because of disease, the raccoon has consistently maintained high population levels.
Even though raccoons may not have been a significant part of their diet, wolves surely would have tried to prey on those exposed in relatively treeless areas.
As a result, the scribes were assigned their own goddess, Nisaba, later replaced by the god Nabu of Borsippa, whose symbol is neither weapon nor dragon but something far more fearsome, the cuneiform stick. 
More esoteric texts attempt to explain old Babylonian customs, such as the procedure for curing someone who is ill, which included rubbing tar and gypsum on the sick person  s door and drawing a design at the foot of the person  s bed.
Manuscripts were compiled with an eye to the overall design.
For South Island, human predation appears to have been a significant factor in the depletion of the population of moa.
For these reasons, it is hard to determine the likelihood that introduced disease organisms were a cause of the decline of moa, but they are potentially significant.
Working from the inside of the design outward, the Navajo artist and his assistants will sift the black, white, bluish-gray, orange, and red materials through their fingers to create the finely detailed imagery.
The Navajo are also world-famous for the designs on their woven blankets.
Navajo women own the family flocks, control the sharing of the sheep, the carding, the spinning, and dying of the thread, and the weaving of the fabrics While the men who make faithful copies of sand paintings from the past represent the principle of stability in Navajo thought, women embody dynamism and create new designs for every weaving they make.
Completely isolated on the island after migrating from the mainland, the founder population may have undergone significant changes in its gene pool and become a new species.
Dinosaurs rapidly became extinct about 65 million years ago as part of a mass extinction known as the K-T event, because it is associated with a geological signature known as the K-T boundary, usually a thin band of sedimentation found in various parts of the world (K is the traditional abbreviation for the Cretaceous, derived from the German name Kreideieit).
In addition, the Galileo spacecraft discovered that Ganymede has a magnetic field, the signature of a partially molten interior.
The eastward shift signals the beginning of an El  Nifio.
One of the most significant evolutionary events that occurred on Earth was the transition of water-dwelling fish to terrestrial tetrapods (four-limbed organisms with backbones).
The most significant is water motion: currents and waves.
This damping effect can be significant to the point where just one meter into a seagrass bed the wave motion can be reduced to zero.
These are at best a waste and at worst an impediment to the transfer of pollen in the air The result is insignificant-looking flowers and catkins (dense cylindrical clusters of small, petalless flowers).
But once this far, significant quantities can go a kilometer or more.
Learning these complex signs required long training and much practice; inevitably, literacy was largely limited to a small professional class, the scribes.
The Akkadians conquered the Sumerians around the middle of the third millennium B.C.E., and they took over the various cuneiform signs used for writing Sumerian and gave them sound and word values that fit their own language.
For the scribes of these non-Sumerian languages, training was doubly demanding since they had to know the values of the various cuneiform signs for Sumerian as well as for their own language.
Conservation biologists have long been concerned that species extinction could have significant consequences for the stability of entire ecosystems  groups of interacting organisms and the physical environment that they inhabit.
But the effect of Roman civil architecture was significant.
They also have significance because they provide coastal protection, opportunities for recreation, and are potential sources of substances like medicinal drugs.
