Even the kind of stability defined as simple lack of change is not always associated with maximum diversity.
A more complicated system is, in general, more likely than a simple system to break down.
The origin of multicellular forms of life seems a relatively simple step compared to the origin of life itself.
Although initially appealing, the hypothesis of a simple climatic change related to sea levels is insufficient to explain all the data.
(Grasses are simple forms of angiosperms that bear their encapsulated seeds on long stalks.)
Perhaps their rush to adulthood is driven by a simple need to keep warm.
Their major point was that the distribution of a given species was controlled by the habitat requirements of that species and that therefore the vegetation types were a simple consequence of the ecologies of individual plant species.
No doubt the ability to talk about one's past represents memory of a different level of complexity than simple recognition or recall.
In the long term, photography's impact on the visual arts was far from simple.
The frequency with which certain simple motifs appear in these oldest sites has led rock-art researchers to adopt a descriptive term  the Panaramitee style  a label which takes its name from the extensive rock pavements at Panaramitee North in desert South Australia, which are covered with motifs pecked into the surface.
The simple motifs found at Panaramitee are common to many rock-art sites across Australia.
In the 1970s when the study of Australian archaeology was in an exciting phase of development, with the great antiquity of rock art becoming clear, Lesley Maynard, the archaeologist who coined the phrase   Panaramitee style,   suggested that a sequence could be determined for Australian rock art, in which a geometric style gave way to a simple figurative style (outlines of figures and animals), followed by a range of complex figurative styles that, unlike the pan-Australian geometric tradition tended to much greater regional diversity.
While accepting that this sequence fits the archaeological profile of those sites, which were occupied continuously over many thousands of years a number of writers have warned that the underlying assumption of such a sequence  a development from the simple and the geometric to the complex and naturalistic  obscures the cultural continuities in Aboriginal Australia, in which geometric symbolism remains fundamentally important.
The answer is not as simple as might be thought.
When experimental populations are set up under simple laboratory conditions, the predator often exterminates its prey and then becomes extinct itself, having nothing left to eat.
Furthermore, their regular and standardized shapes would have made them simple to stack and store.
There is no simple or single factor that determines if a given site will be a savanna, but some factors seem to play important roles in their formation.
The first farmers, who may have lived as long as 10,000 years ago, undoubtedly used simple techniques and still relied primarily on other forms of food production, such as hunting, foraging, or pastoralism.
The organization of such societies could be rather simple, revolving around age and gender categories.
In his view, nomadic, simple foragers have relatively low levels of fertility.
High levels of physical activity and long periods of nursing, which are common among modern simple foragers, probably also contributed to low levels of female fertility if they were likewise common among ancient foragers. 
An area of grassland vegetation with very simple structure, for example, has a very differed microclimate at the ground level from that experienced in the upper canopy.
In the ocean, microscopic phytoplankton (tiny floating plants) and bacteria (simple, single-celled organisms) are the principal sources of organic matter that is trapped and buried in sediment Most of the organic matter is buried in clay that is slowly converted to a fine-grained sedimentary rock known as shale.
This script consists of simple shapes, basically just wedge shapes and lines that could easily be incised in soft clay with a reed or wooden stylus; scholars have dubbed it cuneiform from the wedge-shaped marks (cunei in Latin) that are its hallmark Although the ingredients are merely wedges and lines, there are hundreds of combinations of these basic forms that stand for different sounds or words.
The contents of the earliest clay tablets are simple notations of numbers of commodities  animals, jars, baskets, etc.
Its use soon widened to document the multitudinous things and acts that are involved in daily life, from simple inventories of commodities to complicated governmental rules and regulations.
They range from simple textbook material to literature-and they make an appearance very early, even from the third millennium B C E.
In the end, despite insightful attempts to detect some general patterns, we may find it very difficult to reduce this topic to a simple, universal truth.
