For the price of 25 cents (or 5 cents per machine), customers moved from machine to machine to watch five different films (or, in the case of famous prizefights, successive rounds of a single fight).
To take an extreme example, farmlands dominated by a single crop are so unstable that one year of bad weather or the invasion of a single pest can destroy the entire crop.
Steam power did not merely spin cotton and roll iron; early in the new century, it also multiplied ten times over the amount of paper that a single worker could produce in a day.
Not a single pebble was found that might have indicated that the pebbles came from the nearby continent.
Whereas Greece had grown from scores of scattered cities, Rome grew from one single organism.
In view of these facts, scientists hypothesized that a single large asteroid, about 10 to 15 kilometers across, collided with Earth, and the resulting fallout created the boundary clay.
These are not single individual plants; each one is a symbiotic combination of an alga and a fungus.
Unlike short-term financial cooperation between investors for a single commercial undertaking, joint-stock companies provided permanent funding of capital by drawing on the investments of merchants and other investors who purchased shares in the company.
Stone statues were worked from single rectangular blocks of material and retained the compactness of the original shape.
Despite all the highly visible technological developments in theatrical and home delivery of the moving image that have occurred over the decades since then, no single innovation has come close to being regarded as a similar kind of watershed.
The first is the habituation-dishabituation technique, in which a single stimulus is presented repeatedly to the infant until there is a measurable decline (habituation) in whatever attending behavior is being observed.
Many of those who experienced this sharp break thereafter lacked the ties that had bound them and their ancestors to a single place.
A more economical approach was to use a sign to express not a whole word but a single syllable.
Earth  s surface is not made up of a single sheet of rock that forms a crust but rather a number of   tectonic plates   that fit closely, like the pieces of a giant jigsaw puzzle.
Furthermore, most species do not depend entirely on a single resource, if the major resource for a species becomes scarce, the species can usually shift to alternative resources.
The Russian biologist G.F. Gause performed numerous two-species experiments in the laboratory, in which one of the species became extinct when only a single kind of resource was available.
If it seems difficult to conceive how major changes could occur rapidly, consider this: An alteration of a single gene in flies is enough to turn a normal fly with a single pair of wings into one that has two pairs of wings.
Evolutionary biologists believe that speciation, the formation of a new species, often begins when some kind of physical barrier arises and divides a population of a single species into separate subpopulations.
There is no simple or single factor that determines if a given site will be a savanna, but some factors seem to play important roles in their formation.
While this contest over an unoccupied nest site produced no obvious mortality, fights over occupied nests sometimes kill over 1,000 bees in a single battle. 
An additional benefit was that the sediment carried by the river waters deposited nutrients in the soil, thus enabling the farmer to cultivate a single plot of ground for many years without moving to a new location.
How the first governments took shape in these areas is not certain, but anthropologists studying the evolution of human communities in various parts of the world have discovered that one common stage in the process is the emergence of what are called   big men   within a single village or a collection of villages.
In other words, a series of events arising from a single cataclysmic event caused the massive extinctions.
Initially, the meteorite theory was based on a single line of evidence.
Paper is thinner than parchment, so more pages could be enclosed within a single volume.
He proposed water as the single substance from which everything in the world was made and developed a model of the universe with Earth as a flat disk floating in water.
Careful habitat management increased this number to over 300 birds, but the single population remained vulnerable to local catastrophic events.
For example, what looks to the unaided eye like a single star in the sky may be resolved as two stars with the help of a telescope.
However, cells, cellular organelles, and even molecules like DNA and protein are much larger than single atoms. 
Accumulated evidence indicates that all thirteen finch species evolved from a single small population of ancestral birds that colonized one of the islands.
For the artist, this technique allows forms and linear perspective to be drawn precisely as they would be seen from a single viewpoint.
In fact, it is possible that the loss of a single important species could start a cascade of extinctions that might dramatically change an entire ecosystem.
The worker and soldier castes of social ants, bees, and wasps consist of only females, all daughters of a single queen that mated soon after she matured and thereafter never mated again.
