The situation is most critical in Texas, where the climate is driest, the greatest amount of water is being pumped, and the aquifer contains the least water.
The exact role of other factors is much more difficult to pinpoint Dfor instance, Teotihuac  n  s religious significance as a shrine, the historical situation in and around the Valley of Mexico toward the end of the first millennium B.C., the ingenuity and foresightedness of Teotihuac  n  s elite, and, finally, the impact of natural disasters, such as the volcanic eruptions of the late first millennium B.C.
Further observation revealed the tendency of teachers to evaluate events rather than review the contributory factors in a considered manner by, in effect, standing outside the situation. 
Wildman and Niles identify three principles that facilitate reflective practice in a teaching situation.
By providing us with definitions of situations, they elicit from our behavior that conforms to group-devised meanings.
Fantasy situations and settings are frequently used to attract children's attention, particularly in food advertising.
This accords with anecdotal evidence that people often yawn in situations where they are neither tired nor bored, but are preparing for impending mental and physical activity.
Once humans possessed such a mind, they were able to find an imaginative solution to a situation of severe economic crisis such as the farming dilemma described earlier.
In this situation the predator and prey populations may continue in this cyclical pattern for some time.
When several individuals of the same species or of several different species depend on the same limited resource, a situation may arise that is referred to as competition.
Many species appear to remain unchanged in the fossil record for millions of years    a situation that seems to be at odds with Darwin  s model of continuous change.
So even under normal situations the gene flow among the subpopulations is more of an intermittent trickle than a steady stream.
The same situation viewed from the perspective of the rural population is even more complex.
In the industrial area of Birmingham, the situation was reversed: 13 percent of pale forms but 27.5 percent of dark forms were recaptured.
That happy situation began to change in the 1980s, due to the increasing frequency of large forest fires that were essentially impossible to extinguish unless rain and low winds combined to help.
In these situations, water temperatures are raised not just along the coast, but for thousands of kilometers offshore.
If we accept these totals, we are confronted with a situation in which the Chinese population doubled in the 50 years from 1790 to 1840.
