But note that porosity is not the same as permeability, which measures the ease with which water can flow through a material; this depends on the sizes of the individual cavities and the crevices linking them.
What happens depends on pore size.
In other cases, the finer particles may be removed, while the sand-sized particles are accumulated to form mobile hills or ridges of sand. 
At the same time, the image that the spectator looked at expanded from the minuscule peepshow dimensions of 1 or 2 inches (in height) to the life-size proportions of 6 or 9 feet.
In order for the structure to achieve the size and strength necessary to meet its purpose, architecture employs methods of support that, because they are based on physical laws, have changed little since people first discovered them  even while building materials have changed dramatically.
Progress in this area can be measured by the difference in weight between buildings built now and those of comparable size built one hundred years ago.
In addition, the paintings mostly portray animals that the painters may have feared the most because of their size, speed, natural weapons such as tusks and horns, and the unpredictability of their behavior.
Finally, the growing population was probably fed by increasing the number and size of irrigated fields.
In view of these facts, scientists hypothesized that a single large asteroid, about 10 to 15 kilometers across, collided with Earth, and the resulting fallout created the boundary clay.
Some species developed great size, becoming tree ferns that even now grow in the Hawaiian forests. 
By doing so, they could possibly secure more food, which should result in more rapid growth or larger size, either of which is advantageous.
In many instances, spectators in the era before recorded sound experienced elaborate aural presentations alongside movies' visual images, from the Japanese benshi (narrators) crafting multivoiced dialogue narratives to original musical compositions performed by symphony-size orchestras in Europe and the United States.
New color processes, larger or differently shaped screen sizes, multiple-screen projections, even television, were among the developments invented or tried out during the period, sometimes with startling success.
First, group size is important.
Second, face-to-face contact allows us to size up others.
The Independent Television Commission, regulator of television advertising in the United Kingdom, has criticized advertisers for "misleadingness"  creating a wrong impression either intentionally or unintentionally  in an effort to control advertisers' use of techniques that make it difficult for children to judge the true size, action, performance, or construction of a toy.
The first, and simplest, is size.
An adult leatherback is twice the size of the biggest cheloniid sea turtles and will therefore take longer to cool off.
Leatherbacks reach their immense size in a much shorter time than it takes other sea turtles to grow.
An asteroid of this size would be expected to leave an immense crater, even if the asteroid itself was disintegrated by the impact.
Pluto is not included in either category, because its great distance from Earth and its small size make this planet's true nature a mystery.
The most obvious difference between the terrestrial and the Jovian planets is their size.
There appears to be a correlation between the positions of these planets and their sizes.
It is hypothesized that the primordial cloud of dust and gas from which all the planets are thought to have condensed had a composition somewhat similar to that of Jupiter.
What happens is that small (millimeter-to centimeter-size) pellets of ice form in the cold upper regions of the cloud.
Eventually, the energy-transforming role of such a system was emphasized.
Whether Mithen's explanation is satisfactory is open to contention, and some authors have recently emphasized the importance of other factors.
These seeds are actually chondrules: millimeter-sized melted droplets of silicate material that were cooled into spheres of glass and crystal.
Reduced cost was also instrumental in developing steam-powered rolling mills capable of producing finished iron of various shapes and sizes.
But Uruk  s dominant size in the entire region, far surpassing that of other settlements, indicates that it was a regional center and a true city.
It is a rather shallow bowl that was crudely made in a mold; hence, in only a limited number of standard sizes.
South African farmers who maintain herds of wild eland (large African antelopes with short, twisted horns) report that the offspring soon diminish in size, unless wild bulls are introduced constantly from outside.
It has been estimated that Monte Testaccio contains the remains of some 53 million amphorae, in which around 6,000 million liters of oil were imported into the city from overseas, imports into imperial Rome were supported by the full might of the state and were therefore quite exceptional  but the size of the operations at Monte Testaccio, and the productivity and complexity that lay behind them, nonetheless cannot fail to impress.
It is one of the factors controlling the size of competing populations, and extreme cases it may lead to the extinction of one of the competing species.
The first documented English mill was in the eighth century, but three centuries later about 5,000 were recorded, suggesting that every settlement of any size had its mill.
Other studies have shown that greater stimulation not only affects the size of the brain but also increases the number of connections between the nerve cells.
As the communities continue to grow in size and material wealth, the   big men   assume hereditary status, and their allies and family members are transformed into a hereditary monarchy.
He standardized the length of alif, the first letter of the Arabic alphabet, and then determined what the size and shape of all other letters should be, based on the alif.
All of these factors may have resulted in a trend of increasing size among some local human populations in the Holocene (since 9600 B.C.E.).
Given sufficient time, even in very rich habitats, human population size can reach carrying capacity, the maximum population an area can sustain within the context of a given subsistence system.
Kettlewell hypothesized that the normal pale forms are difficult to see when resting on lichen-covered trees, whereas dark forms are conspicuous.
In a fragmented landscape where many populations and habitats are isolated from others, translocations can play an effective role in conservation strategies; they can increase the number of existing populations or increase the size, genetic diversity, and demographic balance of a small population, consequently increasing its chances of survival. 
A structure built with steel beams protected by terra-cotta tiles was still three times lighter than a comparably sized building that used masonry construction, so the weight of the tiles was not a problem.
Magnification, the increase in the apparent size of an object, is one important factor in microscopy.
The light microscope cannot resolve detail finer than 0.2 micrometers, about the size of the smallest bacterium; consequently, no matter how many times its image of such a bacterium is magnified, the light microscope cannot show the details of the cell  s internal structure.
The period at the end of this sentence is about a million times bigger than an object 0.2 nanometers in diameter, which is the size of a large atom.
The size of a cell often determines the type of microscope a biologist uses to study it. 
Venus and Earth are similar in size and mass, so Venusian volcanoes may well have outgassed as much water vapor as on Earth, and both planets would have had about the same number of comets strike their surfaces.
Callisto is unique among the planet-sized objects of the solar system in its absence of interior forces to drive geological evolution.
Measurements of its gravity field tell us that the rock and metal sank to form a core about the size of our Moon, with a mantle and crust of ice floating above it.
Possibly the small difference in size and internal heating between the two led to this divergence in their evolution.
It should be emphasized that the evolution of lungs and limbs was in no sense an anticipation of future life on land.
But size is a two-edged sword.
Another consequence of the limited availability of prey is that many animals have developed ways of coping with much larger food particles, relative to their own body size, than the equivalent shallower species can process.
In such creatures, not only are the teeth hugely enlarged and/or the jaws elongated but the size of the mouth opening may be greatly increased by making the jaw articulations so flexible that they can be effectively dislocated.
Very large or long teeth provide almost no room for cutting the prey into a convenient size for swallowing, the fish must gulp the prey down whole.
Architecture of this era reflected this with even the largest of the fortified towns and hill forts containing no more than clusters of medium-sized structures.
The sheer size of space enclosed within buildings like the basilica of London must have been astonishing.
According to luscher, a medium-sized nest of Macrotermes has a population of about 2 million individuals.
The size of reefs is variable.
In addition, the juveniles inside the body cavity were of different sizes.
