During the early stages of its development, a society becomes aware of forces that appear to influence or control its food supply and well-being.
In all probability it was the fertile plain of Latium, where the Latins who founded Rome originated, that created the habits and skills of landed settlement, landed property, landed economy, landed administration, and a land-based society.
In West Africa the blacksmith who made tools and  weapons had an important place in society, often with special religious powers and functions.
Primary groups are fundamental to us and to society.
Within them, infants and children are introduced to the ways of their society.
Sociologists view primary groups as bridges between individuals and the larger society because they transmit, mediate, and interpret a society's cultural patterns and provide the sense of oneness so critical for social solidarity.
Certain characteristics of American society help to explain this remarkable migration.
Moreover, European society was relatively stratified; occupation and social status were inherited.
In American society, however, the class structure was less rigid; some people changed occupations easily and believed it was their duty to improve their social and economic position.
But a small segment of the urban society started to specialize in nonagricultural tasks as a result of the city  s role as a regional center.
This was a society with similarities to modern one  moving goods on a gigantic scale, manufacturing high-quality containers to do so, and occasionally, as here, even discarding them on delivery.
What is more significant than any geographical spread is the access that different levels of society had to good-quality products.
In fact, according to developmental psychologist David Elkind, United States society tends to push children so rapidly that they begin to feel tress and pressure at a young age.
In some cases, the physical division within the first cities reflected the strict hierarchical character of the society as a whole, with a royal palace surrounded by an imposing wall and separate from the remainder of the urban population.
These more vulnerable members of society could safely stay in a fixed village rather than be forced regularly to move great distances as part of a nomadic existence, with its greater risk of accidents and trauma.
The oldest cuneiform texts recorded the transactions of tax collectors and merchants, the receipts and bills of sale of an urban society.
The purpose and meaning of the sand paintings can be explained by examining one of the most basic ideals of Navajo society, embodied in their word hozho (beauty or harmony, goodness, and happiness).
Redistribution of these goods through society lay in the hands of chiefs, religious leaders, or kin groups.
For example, he argued that the introduction of domesticated vines and olives allowed a substantial expansion of land under cultivation and helped to power the emergence of complex society.
In the long run, the commercial revolution of the High Middle Ages (a d 1000-1300) brought about radical change in European society.
The slow but steady transformation of European society from almost completely rural and isolated to relatively more urban constituted the greatest effect of the commercial revolution that began in the eleventh century.
On occasion large groups amassed for war or religious festivals, but society remained centered on small communities.
To explain this sudden increase we cannot point to factors constant in Chinese society but must find conditions or a combination of factors that were newly effective in this period.
