As a person becomes more sophisticated, its conceptions of supernatural forces and causal relationships may change.
Thus, the recalling of an event (a hunt, battle, or other feat) is elaborated through the narrator  s pantomime and impersonation and eventually through each role being assumed by a different person.
One, set forth by Aristotle in the fourth century B.C., sees humans as naturally imitative  as taking pleasure in imitating persons, things, and actions and in seeing such imitations.
Late-lying snow reduces the effective growing season to the point where seedlings cannot establish themselves.
Probably the most important environmental factor is temperature, for if the growing season is too short and temperatures are too low, tree shoots and buds cannot mature sufficiently to survive the winter months.
Other features, however, show experts that Pakicetus is a transitional form between a group of extinct flesh-eating mammals, the mesonychids, and cetaceans.
Thomas Edison's peepshow device, the Kinetoscope, was introduced to the public in 1894.
These Kinetoscope arcades were modeled on phonograph parlors, which had proven successful for Edison several years earlier.
Edison was more interested in the sale of Kinetoscopes (for roughly $1,000 apiece) to these parlors than in the films that would be run in them (which cost approximately $10 to $15 each).
He refused to develop projection technology, reasoning that if he made and sold projectors, then exhibitors would purchase only one machine-a projector-from him instead of several.
About a year after the opening of the first Kinetoscope parlor in 1894, showmen such as Louis and Auguste Lumiere, Thomas Armat and Charles Francis Jenkins, and Orville and Woodville Latham (with the assistance of Edison's former assistant, William Dickson) perfected projection devices.
The destruction caused by the volcanic explosion of Mount St. Helens, in the northwestern United States, for example, pales in comparison to the destruction caused by humans.
What keeps the black-tailed deer alive in the harsher seasons of plant decay and dormancy?
Later on in the early years of the nineteenth century, when Fort Vancouver became the headquarters of the Hudson's Bay Company, deer populations continued to fluctuate.
But the most profound reason for the restoration of high population numbers has been the fate of the forests.
The particular symbolic significance of the cave paintings in southwestern France is more explicitly revealed, perhaps, by the results of a study conducted by researchers Patricia Rice and Ann Paterson.
Contrary to the arguments of some that much of the pacific was settled by Polynesians accidentally marooned after being lost and adrift, it seems reasonable that this feat was accomplished by deliberate colonization expeditions that set out fully stocked with food and domesticated plants and animals.
Only the last of these was suited at all to the continuous operating of machines, and although waterpower abounded in Lancashire and Scotland and ran grain mills as well as textile mills, it had one great disadvantage: streams flowed where nature intended them to, and water-driven factories had to be located on their banks whether or not the location was desirable for other reasons.
Furthermore, even the most reliable waterpower varied with the seasons and disappeared in a drought.
The better able the person is to reconstruct the perspective from which the material was encoded, the more likely that recall will be successful. 
The world looks very different to a person whose head is only two or three feet above the ground than to one whose head is five or six feet above it.
The physical bonds included the network of military garrisons, which were stationed in every province, and the network of stone-built roads that linked the provinces with Rome.
Of course, the contrast is not quite so stark: in Alexander the Great the Greeks had found the greatest territorial conqueror of all time; and the Romans, once they moved outside Italy, did not fail to learn the lessons of sea power.
Apparently, the most obvious reason for teachers to work toward reflective practice is that teacher educators think it is a good thing.
Other areas under investigation include magnetism, landmarks, coastlines, sonar, and even smells.
A classic example is noisy begging by nestling songbirds when a parent returns to the nest with food.
An individual's success in propagating his or her genes can be affected by more than just his or her own personal reproductive success.
The flow of exogenous rivers varies with the season.
The desert sections of long rivers respond several months after rain has fallen outside the desert, so that peak flows may be in the dry season.
This is useful for irrigation, but the high temperatures, low humidities, and different day lengths of the dry season, compared to the normal growing season, can present difficulties with some crops.
Through association with people who are meaningful to us, we achieve a sense of security, love, acceptance, companionship, and personal worth.
A secondary group entails two or more people who are involved in an impersonal relationship and have come together for a specific, practical purpose.
We find it difficult to get to know people personally when they are milling about and dispersed in large groups.
Second, primary groups are fundamental because they provide the settings in which we meet most of our personal needs.
For instance, some social groups employ shunning (a person can remain in the community, but others are forbidden to interact with the person) as a device to bring into line individuals whose behavior goes beyond that allowed by the particular group.
Consequently, the timing and rhythms of biological functions must closely match periodic events like the solar day, the tides, the lunar cycle, and the seasons.
This view is inaccurate, and the reason proves to be important.
But the Maya homeland lies more than sixteen hundred kilometers from the equator, at latitudes 17 to 22 degrees north, in a habitat termed a "seasonal tropical forest."
That is, while there does tend to be a rainy season from May to October, there is also a dry season from January through April.
If one focuses on the wet months, one calls the Maya homeland a "seasonal tropical forest"; if one focuses on the dry months, one could instead describe it as a "seasonal desert."
The explanation is that the Maya excavated depressions, or modified natural depressions, and then plugged up leaks in the karst by plastering the bottoms of the depressions in order to create reservoirs, which collected rain from large plastered catchment basins and stored it for use in the dry season.
There are several hypotheses, including warming or cooling of Earth, changes in seasonal fluctuations or ocean currents, and changing positions of the continents.
As among tribespeople, personal relationships and a careful weighing of character have always been crucial in a mercantile economy with little regulation, where one's word is one's bond and where informal ties of trust cement together an international trade network.
By comparison, the terrestrial planets have meager atmospheres at best.
Also beginning in the thirteenth century, there were new maps refined by precise calculations and the reports of sailors that made it possible to trace one's path with reasonable accuracy.
In densely wooded environments, sound is the best means of communication over distance because in comparison with light, it travels with little impediment from trees and other vegetation.
In view of their later start and their lack of coal  undoubtedly the main reason they were not among the early industrializers  it is important to understand the sources of their success.
They were reasonably well governed, without notable corruption or grandiose state projects, although in all of them the government gave some aid to railways, and in Sweden the state built the main lines.
But, while accepting that not everything in life can be explained by Darwinian evolution, there are sound reasons for being skeptical of theories like this one, which avoid the issue of what yawning does for adults.
The army also provided a mean of personal advancement for auxiliary soldiers recruited from the native peoples, as a man obtained hereditary Roman citizenship on retirement after service in an auxiliary regiment.
By the later Roman period, frontier garrisons (groups of soldiers) were only rarely transferred, service in units became effectively hereditary, and forts were no longer populated or maintained at full strength.
The opposition to the Clementsian concept of plant ecology was initiated by Herbert Gleason, soon joined by various other ecologists.
Gleason's arguments against climax and biome are largely valid against ecosystems as well.
Another suggestion is that before children can talk about past events in their lives, they need to have a reasonable understanding of the self as a psychological entity.
Since the mid-1970s, a reasonably stable picture has formed of the organization of Australian rock art.
If the irritation is severe enough, a sleeping person will arouse, clear the airway, then resume breathing and likely return to sleep.
Growing food at these elevations is always difficult because of the short growing season.
In the face of all these pushes, people in the Mesa Verde area had yet another reason to move into communal villages: the need for greater cooperation.
A comparison of the Copernicus crater on the Moon with the (fairly typical) crater Yuty on Mars demonstrates the differences.
DNA comparisons have shown that green algae are plants' closest living relatives.
Water temperature can fluctuate seasonally or even daily and changing level of rainfall can lead to fluctuations in the concentration of chemical in the water or even to period in which the aquatic habitat dries up.
Also, the availability of jobs in railway construction attracted many rural laborers accustomed to seasonal and temporary employment.
They possess drought-resisting adaptations: loss of water through the leaves is reduced by means of dense hairs covering waxy leaf surfaces, by the closure of pores during the hottest times to reduce water loss, and by the rolling up or shedding of leaves at the beginning of the dry season.
Escape involves such actions as aestivation, a condition of prolonged dormancy, or torpor, during which animals reduce their metabolic rate and body temperature during the hot season or during very dry spells.
Seasonal migration is another form of escape, especially for large mammals or birds.
For some unknown reason, many were discarded, often still intact, and thousands have been found all over the Near East.
Then in 1963, in the early days of the development of the theory of plate tectonics, Canadian geophysicist Tuzo Wilson realized that this age progression could result if the islands were formed on a surface plate moving over a fixed volcanic source in the interior.
Wilson suggested that the long chain of volcanoes stretching northwest from Hawaii is simply the surface expression of a long-lived volcanic source located beneath the tectonic plate in the mantle.
Wilson  s analysis of these data is now a central part of plate tectonics.
Rubs are created about one to two months before the breeding season (the rut).Hence for a long time biologists believed that male deer used buck rubs not only to clean and polish antlers but also to provide practice for the ensuing male-to-male combat during the rut.
Exactly why animals play is still a matter debated in the research literature, and the reasons may not be the same for every species that plays.
Both these devices worked well in sunny climates; but in Northern Europe the sun may be hidden by clouds for weeks at a time, while temperatures vary not only seasonally but from day to night.
Day and night were divided into the same number of parts, so that except at the equinoxes, day and night hours were unequal; and then of course the length of these hours varied with the seasons.
The clock brought order and control, both collective and personal.
For instance, in a cross-country comparison of preschools in China, Japan, and the United States, researchers found that parents in the three countries view the purpose of preschools very differently.
In the United States, in comparison, parents regard the primary purpose of preschools as making children more independent and self-reliant, although obtaining a good academic start and having group experience are also important.
Savannas typically experience a rather prolonged dry season.
One theory behind savanna formation is that wet forest species are unable to withstand the dry season, and thus a savanna, rather than a rain forest, is favored on the site.
Savannas experience an annual rainfall of between 1,000 and 2,000 millimeters, most of it falling in a five- to eight-month wet season.
These families were pensioned off(given a sum of money to live on) or simply had their revenues taken away or restricted; their sons were enticed away to schools for district officers, later to be posted in some faraway  province; and the old patron-client relations that had bound together local societies simply disintegrated.
In 1977 ecologists Stephen Hubbell and Leslie Johnson recorded a dramatic example of how social interactions can produce and enforce regular spacing in a population.
Hubbell and Johnson observed that some species of stingless bees are highly aggressive to members of their species from other colonies, while other species are not.
Hubbell and Johnson studied several species of stingless bees to determine whether there is a relationship between aggressiveness and patterns of colony distribution.
Though Hubbell and Johnson were interested in how bee behavior might affect colony distributions, they recognized that the availability of potential nest sites for colonies could also affect distributions.
Hubbell and Johnson mapped the nests of five of the nine species of stingless bees accurately, and the nests of four of these species were distributed regularly.
By means of their military prowess, dominant personalities, or political talents, these people gradually emerge as the leaders of that community.
Indian grass, Canada wild rye, and native big bluestem all grew higher than a person.
It has been said that Chinese papermakers were among the prisoners captured in a battle fought near Samarqand between the Chinese and the Muslims in 751, and the technique of papermaking---in which cellulose pulp extracted from any of several plants is first suspended in water, caught on a fine screen, and then dried into flexible sheets---slowly spread westward.
With the further assumption that these geologic processes were generally no more or less vigorous than they are today, Hutton's examination of sedimentary layers led him to realize that Earth's history must be enormous, that geologic time is an abyss and human history a speck by comparison.
This change in the dominant species from season to season is called seasonal succession, and it occurs in a wide variety of locations.
Under seasonal succession, one or more species dominate the phytoplankton for a shorter or longer period of time and then are replaced by another set of species.
Considering that seasonal succession is most often and clearly seen in temperate seas, which have a marked change in temperature during a year, temperature has been suggested as a cause.
Another suggested reason is the change in nutrient level over the year, with differing concentrations favoring different phytoplankton species.
For this reason, a soil scientist can tell a great deal about the attributes of the soil in any given area simply form knowing what kind of flora the soil supports.
Many others had asked the same question before him, but Thales based his answer strictly on what he had observed and what he could reason out--not on imaginative stories about the gods or the supernatural.
A scientific theory about the universe, however demands much more than the various observations and analogies that were woven together to form systems of reasoning, carefully constructed as they were, that would eventually culminate in Aristotle  s model of the world and the universe.
Without experimentation and objective, critical testing of their theories, the best these thinkers could hope to achieve was some internally consistent speculation that covered all the bases and satisfied the demands of reason. 
For example, glass could be used to open up walls and eliminate their stone and brick masonry because large spaces could now be spanned with steel beams.
This often led to effects that looked odd from a traditional standpoint but that became hallmarks of modern architecture for precisely this reason.
After ten or twelve stories, masonry construction reaches a maximum possible height, since it runs into difficulties of compression and of inadequate lateral strength to combat wind shear.
A structure built with steel beams protected by terra-cotta tiles was still three times lighter than a comparably sized building that used masonry construction, so the weight of the tiles was not a problem.
Following a decline to a relatively low population level in the 1930s,  raccoons began to prosper following their 1943 breeding season.
However, transgenic Bt plants express the toxin in all tissues throughout growing season.
Planting a glyphosate-resistant crop commits a farmer to using that herbicide for the reason, probably to the exclusion of all other herbicides and other weed-control practices.
A more sustainable approach would be to plant nontransgenic corn, monitor the fields throughout the growing season, and then apply a pesticide only if and when needed.
More esoteric texts attempt to explain old Babylonian customs, such as the procedure for curing someone who is ill, which included rubbing tar and gypsum on the sick person  s door and drawing a design at the foot of the person  s bed.
Egypt gave us the tradition of the scribe not just as educated person but as artist and calligrapher.
For these reasons, it is hard to determine the likelihood that introduced disease organisms were a cause of the decline of moa, but they are potentially significant.
This recent increase in fires has resulted partly from climate change (the recent trend toward hot, dry summers) and partly from human activities, for complicated reasons that foresters came increasingly to understand about 30 years ago but whose relative importance is still debated.
Another factor is that the United States Forest Service in the first decade of the 1900s adopted the policy of fire suppression (attempting to put out forest fires) for the obvious reason that it did not want valuable timber to go up in smoke, or people  s homes and lives to be threatened.
When a fire finally does start in a sapling-choked forest, whether due to lightning or human carelessness or (regrettably often) intentional arson, the dense, tall saplings young trees) may become a ladder that allows the fire to jump into the crowns of the trees.
Seasonal avoidance behavior is extremely important in many amphibians.
Conversely, natteijacks in southern Spain remain active during the mild winters common to the region and are instead forced into inactivity during the dry, hot summer season Summer estivation also occurs by burrowing into the ground or hiding in cool, deep rock crevasses to avoid desiccation and lethal ambient temperatures.
The paintings and chants used in the ceremonies are directed by well-trained artists and singers who enlist the aid of spirits who are impersonated by masked performers.
These complex paintings serve as memory aids to guide the singers during the performance of the ritual songs, which can last up to nine days.
When the world, which was created in beauty, becomes ugly and disorderly, the Navajo gather to perform rituals with songs and make sand paintings to restore beauty and harmony to the world.
The songs sung over the paintings are also faithful renditions of songs from the past.
The paintings generally illustrate ideas and events from the life of a mythical hero, who, after being healed by the gods, gave gifts of songs and paintings.
Others have blamed extinction on competition from the mammals, which allegedly ate all the dinosaur eggs-except that mammals and dinosaurs appeared at the same time in the Late Triassic, about 190 million years ago, and there is no reason to believe that mammals suddenly acquired a taste for dinosaur eggs after 120 million years of coexistence.
Towns and cities were established not only as garrisons (military posts) but as centers for the diffusion of Greek language, literature, and thought, particularly through libraries, as at Antioch (in modern Turkey) and the most famous of all, at Alexandria in Egypt, which would be the finest in the world for the next thousand years.
The focus of life was the agora, the open marketplace where assemblies could be held and where issues of the day, as well as more fundamental topics such as the purpose of government or the relationship between law and freedom, could be discussed and decisions made by individuals in person.
There were getting to be too many persons to know, an easily observable community of interests was being replaced by a multiplicity of interests.
was the first person in Greece to propose a morality based on individual conscience rather than the demands of the state, and for this he was accused of not believing in the city  s gods and so corrupting the youth, and he was condemned to death.
However, in other years the Southern Oscillation, for unknown reasons, swings in the opposite direction, dramatically changing the usual conditions described above, with pressure increasing in the western.
Researchers Robertson and Mann note that when the ice begins to break up, the wind and tides may move the ice around, scouring the bottom and uprooting the eelgrass.
This land mass supported herds of now-extinct species of mammoth, bison, and horse and somewhat modern versions of caribou, musk ox, elk, and saiga antelope.
The presence of mammal species that require grassland vegetation has led Arctic biologist Dale Guthrie to argue that while cold and dry, there must have been broad areas of dense vegetation to support herds of mammoth, horse, and bison.
He makes this argument based on the anatomy of horse and bison, which do not have the ability to search for food through deep snow cover.
Guthrie has argued against this view by pointing out that radiocarbon analysis of mammoth, horse, and bison bones from Beringian deposits revealed that the bones date to the period of most intense glaciation.
In the open sea, animals can often find food reliably available in particular regions or seasons (e g., in coastal areas in springtime).
Commercial correspondence, unnecessary when one businessperson oversaw everything and made direct bargains with buyers and sellers, multiplied.
Administrators thus used their personal contacts to put the Britons in touch with architects and masons.
