After several years of cultivation and harvest, the site would be restored at a cost much lower than the price of excavation and reburial, the standard practice for remediation of contaminated soils.
The organizational bonds were based on the common principles of law and administration and on the universal army of officials who enforced common standards of conduct.
Yet this most fundamental standard of historical periodization conceals a host of paradoxes.
The author George Comstock suggested that less than a quarter of children between the ages of six and eight years old understood standard disclaimers used in many toy advertisements and that disclaimers are more readily comprehended when presented in both audio and visual formats.
These were essentially professional associations that provided for the mutual aid and protection of their members, and allowed for the maintenance of professional standards.
As the costs of shipbuilding rose, Venice clung to its outdated standard while the Dutch were innovation in the lighter and more easily handled ships.
The step from buying foreign timber to buying foreign ships was regarded as a short one, especially when complaints were heard in the latter sixteenth century that the standards and traditions of the Arsenale were running down.
It is a rather shallow bowl that was crudely made in a mold; hence, in only a limited number of standard sizes.
It is generally made with carefully selected and purified clay, worked to thin-walled and standardized shapes on a fast wheel and fired in a kiln (pottery oven) capable of ensuring a consistent finish.
Furthermore, their regular and standardized shapes would have made them simple to stack and store.
In all but the remotest regions of the empire, Roman pottery of a high standard is common at the sites of humble villages and isolated farmsteads.
From the start, however, the towns and cities took equal hours as their standard, and the public clocks installed in town halls and market squares became the very symbol of a new, secular municipal authority.
As well as can be measured, rural standards of living improved in the Fifth Reign.
He standardized the length of alif, the first letter of the Arabic alphabet, and then determined what the size and shape of all other letters should be, based on the alif.
Eventually, six round forms of handwriting, composed of three pairs of big and little scripts known collectively as the Six Pens, became the standard repertory of every calligrapher. 
Mesopotamia  s rivers boasted no such useful reeds, but its land did provide good clay, and as a consequence the clay tablet became the standard material.
The commercial revolution created a great deal of new wealth, which meant a higher standard of living.
Such examples established a standard to be copied.
By about 1150 the Spanish had developed the first mill for making cheap paper (a word contracted from "papyrus", which became the standard term).
