There is still no universally agreed-on explanation for why there should be such a dramatic cessation of tree growth at the upper timberline.
In areas where considerable soil still remains, though, a rigorously enforced program of land protection and cover-crop planting may make it possible to reverse the present deterioration of the surface. 
Others, however, have adopted the philosophy that it is best to use the water while it is still economically profitable to do so and to concentrate on high-value crops such as cotton.
No doubt the numbers of deer declined still further.
These problems needed still another solution, and the ingredients for it lay close at hand.
In 1815 he published the first modern geological map,   A Map of the Strata of England and Wales with a Part of Scotland,   a map so meticulously researched that it can still be used today.
The camel transformed the desert from a barrier into a still difficult, but more accessible, route of trade and communication.
They spoke a language, proto-Bantu (  Bantu   means   the people  ), which is the parent tongue of a language of a large number of Bantu languages still spoken throughout sub-Sahara Africa.
Why and how these people spread out into central and southern Africa remains a mystery, but archaeologists believe that their iron weapons allowed them to conquer their hunting-gathering opponents, who still used stone implements.
The most recent geologic evidence indicates that it may have been possible for people to colonize ice-free regions along the continental shelf that were still exposed by the lower sea level between13,000 and 14,000 years ago.
The effect is altogether lighter and freer than that achieved in stone, but because both perform the same function, formal wooden and metal statues still display frontality.
The rate of movement may be very slow: in the Indus plain, the movement of saline (salty) groundwaters has still not reached equilibrium after 70 years of being tapped.
But the inhabitants of Tikal and other cities dependent on reservoirs for drinking water would still have been in deep trouble if 18 months passed without rain in a prolonged drought.
Nevertheless, one still speaks of the ecosystem when referring to a local association of animals and plants, usually without paying much attention to the energy aspects.
Pollen samples from freshwater lakes in Syria and elsewhere tell us forest cover expanded rapidly at the end of the Ice Age, for the southwestern Asian climate was still cooler and considerably wetter than today.
At first the inhabitants still hunted gazelle intensively.
In order to create a sense of structure to this picture, researchers have relied on a distinction that still underlies the forms of much indigenous visual culture  a distinction between geometric and figurative elements.
Although the height of the Little Ice Age was still around the corner, some evidence suggests that temperatures were falling during the thirteenth century.
Are the Martian shield volcanoes still active?
Scientists have no direct evidence for recent or ongoing eruptions, but if these volcanoes were active as recently as 100 million, years ago (an estimate of the time of last "eruption based on the extent of impact cratering on their slopes), some of them may still be at least intermittently active.
Parallel rails had long been used in mining operations to move bigger loads, but horses were still the primary source of power.
For some unknown reason, many were discarded, often still intact, and thousands have been found all over the Near East.
It is still unclear whether domesticated cattle were tamed independently in northern Africa or introduced to the continent from Southwest Asia.Whatever the source of the original tamed herds might have been, it seems entirely likely that much the same process of juxtaposition (living side by side) and control occurred in both Southwest Asia and northern Africa, and even in Europe, among peoples who had an intimate knowledge of the behavior of wild cattle.
Exactly why animals play is still a matter debated in the research literature, and the reasons may not be the same for every species that plays.
In other groups, however, genetic divergences had not proceeded so far, and the descendants could still interbreed   for them, reproductive isolation was not completed, and so speciation had not occurred. 
There were still forests closely surrounding Bangkok into the last half of the nineteenth century, and even at century  s end there were wild elephants and tigers roaming the countryside only twenty or thirty miles away.
The first farmers, who may have lived as long as 10,000 years ago, undoubtedly used simple techniques and still relied primarily on other forms of food production, such as hunting, foraging, or pastoralism.
That we now have an abundance of the proof that was called for was established when Barbara Bentley reviewed the relevant evidence in 1977, and since then many more observations and experiments have provided still further proof that ants benefit plants.
When buds are still small, less than a quarter of an inch long, the sepal nectaries are already present and producing nectar.
Although it is suspected that these organic metabolites may have an important role in species succession and it has been demonstrated in the laboratory that phytoplankton species vary both in their ability to produce necessary vitamins and in their requirements for such in order to grow, evidence is still inadequate as to their real role in the sea.
A structure built with steel beams protected by terra-cotta tiles was still three times lighter than a comparably sized building that used masonry construction, so the weight of the tiles was not a problem.
It still seems a lot to recall, but what was lost in efficiency was more than made up for in the beauty and richness of the texts.
It seems possible that when Captain James Cook first visited New Zealand in 1769, moa (or at least one of the moa species) may have still survived in the remote areas in the western part of New Zealand  s South Island.
This recent increase in fires has resulted partly from climate change (the recent trend toward hot, dry summers) and partly from human activities, for complicated reasons that foresters came increasingly to understand about 30 years ago but whose relative importance is still debated.
But after only a decade  s growth until the next fire, those young seedling plants are still too low for fire to spread from them into the crowns of the ponderosa pine trees.
One species of North American newt is still active when temperatures drop to -2*C while one South American frog feels comfortable even when temperatures rise to 41*C  the highest body temperature measured in a free-ranging amphibian.
The answer to the first question is that carbon dioxide is still found in abundance on Earth, but now, instead of being in the form of atmospheric carbon dioxide, it is either dissolved in the oceans or chemically bound into carbonate rocks, such as the limestone and marble that formed in the oceans.
That, in turn, would have further intensified the greenhouse effect and made the temperature climb higher still.
A lot of additional oil has been located by drilling but is still waiting to be pumped out Possibly a great deal more oil remains to be found by drilling.
Like early land plants such as rhyniophytes, they made only a partial transition; they were still quite tied to water.
Even though mean levels may mask much higher local concentrations, it is still the case that many deep-sea animals are exposed to conditions in which a normal filter-feeder would starve
If, with greater caution, we assume lower totals in the early eighteenth century and only 400 million in 1850, we still face a startling fact: something like a doubling of the vast Chinese population in the century before Western contact, foreign trade, and industrialization could have had much effect.
On clear still nights when the heat island is pronounced, a small thermal low-pressure area forms over the city.
