Plant communities assemble themselves flexibly, and their particular structure depends on the specific history of the area.
Nearly any kind of plant of the forest understory can be part of a deer's diet.
Even with snow on the ground, the high bushy understory is exposed; also snow and wind bring down leafy branches of cedar, hemlock, red alder, and other arboreal fodder. 
Wildlife zoologist Helmut Buechner(1953), in reviewing the nature of biotic changes in Washington through recorded time, says that "since the early 1940s, the state has had more deer than at any other time in its history, the winter population fluctuating around approximately 320,000 deer (mule and black-tailed deer), which will yield about 65,000 of either sex and any age annually for an indefinite period."
Animals originated relatively late in the history of Earth  in only the last 10 percent of Earth  s history.
Why did it occur so late in the history of Earth?
As he collected fossils from strata throughout England, Smith began to see that the fossils told a different story from the rocks.
Fossils are thus identifying markers for particular periods in Earth's history.
An objective of this particular cruise was to investigate the floor of the Mediterranean and to resolve questions about its geologic history.
Ir has not been common at Earth  s since the very beginning of the planet  s history.
A country as vast as China with so long-lasting a civilization has a complex social and visual history, within which pottery and porcelain play a major role.
960-1279), long regarded as one of the high points in the history of China's ceramic industry.
Can one trace this same pattern far back in prehistory?
The shift from silent to sound film at the end of the 1920s marks, so far, the most important transformation in motion picture history.
In nearly every language, however the words are phrased, the most basic division in cinema history lies between films that are mute and films that speak.
Archaeological evidence suggests that by 3000 B.C., and perhaps even earlier, there had emerged on the steppes of Inner Eurasia the distinctive types of pastoralism that were to dominate the region's history for several millennia.
The emergence and spread of pastoralism had a profound impact on the history of Inner Eurasia, and also, indirectly, on the parts of Asia and Europe just outside this area.
Throughout most of Earth  s history, glaciers did not exist, but at the present time about 10 percent of Earth  s land surface is covered by glaciers.
And, like the pastoralists, Middle Eastern merchants and artisans unhappy with their environment could simply pack up and leave for greener pastures  an act of self-assertion wholly impossible in most other civilizations throughout history.
Denmark also had an admirable commercial history, particularly with respect to traffic through the Sound (the strait separating Denmark and Sweden).
In the late nineteenth century, ecology began to grow into an independent science from its roots in natural history and plant geography.
Finally, younger ecologists have found ecological problems involving behavior and life-history adaptations more attractive than measuring physical constants.
The story of the westward movement of population in the United States is, in the main, the story of the expansion of American agriculture  of the development of new areas for the raising of livestock and the cultivation of wheat, corn, tobacco, and cotton.
It was a close-knit community of rectangular, one-story mud-brick houses, joined by narrow lanes and courtyards, finally abandoned about 5000 B.C..
It is archaeologist Steven Mithen's thesis, brilliantly developed in his book The Prehistory of the Mind (1996), that approximately 40,000 years ago the human mind developed cognitive fluidity, that is, the integration of the specializations of the mind: technical, natural history (geared to understanding the behavior and distribution of natural resources), social intelligence, and the linguistic capacity.
A third possibility is that children will not be able to tell their own "life story" until they understand something about the general form stories take, that is, the structure of narratives.
Knowledge about narratives arises from social interactions, particularly the storytelling that children experience from parents and the attempts parents make to talk with children about past events in their lives.
The evolutionary history of plants has been marked by a series of adaptations.
All of these features appeared later in the evolutionary history of plants.
Today green algae live mainly in freshwater, suggesting that their early evolutionary history may have occurred in freshwater habitats.
The biblical story of the Flood may originate in Sumer.
Texts dealing with economic matters predominated, as they always had done; but at this point works of theology, literature, history, and law also appeared.
Indeed, it was the first city in human history.
), there first appeared a type of object that remained characteristic for Mesopotamia throughout its entire history: the cylinder seal.
However, there is one exceptional dump, which does represent a very large part of the site's total history of consumption and for which an estimate of quantity has been produced.
But maps that show the various spots where Roman pottery of a particular type has been found tell only part of the story.
But close examination of those fossil deposits now reveals a somewhat different story.
Species succession in plant communities, i.e., the temporal sequence of appearance and disappearance of species is dependent on events occurring at different stages in the life history of a species.
Paleontologists label this point in Earth  s history as the end of the Cretaceous period and the beginning of the Tertiary period, often abbreviated as the K-T boundary.
The extrafloral nectaries of some plants are known to attract ants and other insects, but the evolutionary history of most plants with these nectaries is unknown.
It was not until the seventeenth century that attempts were made again to understand clues to Earth's history through the rock record.
Hutton's concept represented a remarkable insight because it unified many individual phenomena and observations into a conceptual picture of Earth  s history.
With the further assumption that these geologic processes were generally no more or less vigorous than they are today, Hutton's examination of sedimentary layers led him to realize that Earth's history must be enormous, that geologic time is an abyss and human history a speck by comparison.
For most of human history, we have foraged (hunted, fished, and collected wild plants) for food.
The North American equivalent of this story is another moth, the swettaria form of Biston cognataria, first noticed in industrialized areas such as Chicago and New York City in the early 1900s.
Much more is known about Anaximander than about Anaximenes, probably because Anaximander, who was born sometime around 610 BCE, ambitiously attempted to write a comprehensive history of the universe.
Unfortunately, most of Anaximander  s written history of the universe was lost, and only a few fragments survive today.
Remarkably, versions of Gilgamesh span 1,500 years, between 2100 B.C.E and 600 B.C.E., making the story the epic of an entire civilization.
Perhaps hieroglyphics are Egypt  s great contribution to the history of writing: hieroglyphic wiring, in use from 3100 B.C.E.
Scholars have detected some 6,000 separate hieroglyphic characters in use over the history of Egyptian writing, but it appears that never more than a thousand were in use during any one period.
The story of moa species and their demise raises ecological issues on the vulnerability of species to human-caused changes- including altered vegetative cover of the landscape, change in the physical environment, and modification of the flora and fauna of a region by eliminating some species and introducing others.
The mature ponderosa trees have bark two inches thick and are relatively resistant to fire, which instead burns out the understory  the lower layer  of fire-sensitive Douglas fir seedlings that have grown up since the previous fire.
Hence the fire remains confined to ground and understory.
As a result, many natural ponderosa pine forests have a parklike appearance, with low fuel loads, big trees spaced apart, and a relatively clear understory.
However, loggers concentrated on removing those big, old, valuable, fire-resistant ponderosa pines, while fire suppression for decades let the understory fill up with Douglas fir saplings that would in turn become valuable when full-grown.
In an ideal world, the Forest Service would manage and restore the forests, thin them out, and remove the dense understory by cutting or by controlled small fires.
Although area may contribute to biodiversity, it is certainly not the whole story; otherwise, large landmasses would always be richer in species.
To answer the question about Venus   lack of water, we must return to the early history of the planet.
On this archaeologists generally agree, but that is where the agreement stops One broad area of disagreement in explaining the peopling of the Americas is the domain of paleoecologists, but it is critical to understanding human history: what was Beringia like?
The Egyptians were not far behind in developing writing, but we cannot follow the history of their writing in detail because they used a perishable writing material.
Downing used the ratio of above-ground biomass in 1988 (after two years of drought) to that in 1986 (predrought) in 207 plots in a grassland field in the Cedar Creek Natural History Area in Minnesota as an index of ecosystem response to disruption by drought.
