These early projection devices were used in vaudeville theaters, legitimate theaters, local town halls, makeshift storefront theaters, fairgrounds, and amusement parks to show films to a mass audience.
After several years of cultivation and harvest, the site would be restored at a cost much lower than the price of excavation and reburial, the standard practice for remediation of contaminated soils.
Hearing and telling stories about events may help children store information in ways that will endure into later childhood and adulthood.
The algae capture the sun's energy by photosynthesis and store it in organic molecules.
Deserts contain large amounts of groundwater when compared to the amounts they hold in surface stores such as lakes and rivers.
Groundwater is stored in the pore spaces and joints of rocks and unconsolidated (unsolidified) sediments or in the openings widened through fractures and weathering.
Large quantities of water may also be stored in limestones when joints and cracks have been enlarged to form cavities.
The explanation is that the Maya excavated depressions, or modified natural depressions, and then plugged up leaks in the karst by plastering the bottoms of the depressions in order to create reservoirs, which collected rain from large plastered catchment basins and stored it for use in the dry season.
A shorter drought in which they exhausted their stored food supplies might already have gotten them in deep trouble, because growing crops required rain rather than reservoirs.
Here water may be stored in ice form for hundreds or even hundreds of thousands of years before being released again into the liquid water system as meltwater.
During the day, heat from the Sun can be conducted into these materials and stored  to be released at night.
Green algae store food as starch, as do land plants and have cell walls made of cellulose, similar in composition to those of land plants.
Some xerophytes, the succulents (including cacti), store water in their structures.
Most of the world's potable water  freshwater suitable for drinking  is accounted for by groundwater, which is stored in the pores and fractures in rocks.
There is more than 50 times as much freshwater stored underground than in all the freshwater rivers and lakes at the surface.
Nearly 50 percent of all groundwater is stored in the upper 1,000 meters of Earth.
Groundwater is stored in a variety of rock types.
Furthermore, their regular and standardized shapes would have made them simple to stack and store.
Therefore, it results in the loss of fuel or energy that might better be used for growth or for building up fat stores in a young animal.
Products such as lard, tallow, and cheese quickly spoiled if stored in New Orleans   hot and humid warehouses.
Fortunately, however, many tablets survived because they were accidentally fired when the buildings they were stored in burned. 
In an ideal world, the Forest Service would manage and restore the forests, thin them out, and remove the dense understory by cutting or by controlled small fires.
The African savanna frog Hyperolius viridiflavus stores guanine crystals in its skin, which enable it to better reflect solar radiation, thus providing protection against overheating.
When the world, which was created in beauty, becomes ugly and disorderly, the Navajo gather to perform rituals with songs and make sand paintings to restore beauty and harmony to the world.
At night, the solar energy (stored as vast quantities of heat in city buildings and roads) is slowly released into the city air.
