The particular symbolic significance of the cave paintings in southwestern France is more explicitly revealed, perhaps, by the results of a study conducted by researchers Patricia Rice and Ann Paterson.
This job gave Smith an opportunity to study the fresh rock outcrops created by the newly dug canal.
One study suggests that except for a 250-mile coastal area between southwestern British Columbia and Washington State, the Northwest Coast of North America was largely free of ice by approximately 16,000 years ago.
Further evidence for the costs of begging comes from a study of differences in the begging calls of warbler species that nest on the ground versus those that nest in the relative safety of trees.
In the study of perceptual abilities of infants, a number of techniques are used to determine infants' responses to various stimuli.
Film analysis permits researchers to carefully study the infant's responses over and over and in slow motion.
A study of children in Hong Kong, however, found that the presence of celebrities in advertisements could negatively affect the children's perceptions of a product if the children did not like the celebrity in question.
Support for this theory came from a study of yawning behavior in everyday life.
In the middle of the nineteenth century, Louis Agassiz, one of the first scientists to study glaciers, immigrated to the United States from Switzerland and became a professor at Harvard University, where he continued his studies in geology and other sciences.
The flotation samples from the excavations allowed botanists to study shifts in plant-collecting habits as if they were looking through a telescope at a changing landscape.
The systematic study of this art is a relatively new discipline in Australia.
In the 1970s when the study of Australian archaeology was in an exciting phase of development, with the great antiquity of rock art becoming clear, Lesley Maynard, the archaeologist who coined the phrase   Panaramitee style,   suggested that a sequence could be determined for Australian rock art, in which a geometric style gave way to a simple figurative style (outlines of figures and animals), followed by a range of complex figurative styles that, unlike the pan-Australian geometric tradition tended to much greater regional diversity.
The result has been that the residence time of one of the lakes increased from 5 to 18 years during the study period.
The importance of olfactory communication (using odors to communicate) in the way of life of deer was documented by a study of captive adult mule deer a few decades ago, which noted that males rubbed their foreheads on branches and twigs, especially as autumn approached.
A decade later another study reported that adult male white-tailed deer exhibited forehead rubbing just before and during the rut.
In one research study, two groups of young rats were raised under different conditions.
In that study, each of eight different trilobite species was observed to undergo a gradual change in the number of segments    typically an increase of one or two segments over the whole time interval.
Because Graves  s study of geographically isolated populations of Isthmus fishes offers a glimpse of the beginning of a process of gradual accumulation of mutations that are neutral or adaptive, divergences here might be evidence of allopatric speciation in process. 
So as one of the first steps in their study they mapped the distributions of trees suitable for nesting.
They found that potential nest trees were distributed randomly through the study area.
The number of colonies in the study area was not limited by availability of suitable trees, and a clumped or regular distribution of colonies was not due to an underlying clumped or regular distribution of potential nest sites.
The fifth species was not aggressive, and its nests were randomly distributed over the study area.
In the early 1760s, a gifted young Scot named James Watt was drawn to a critical study of the steam engine.
One was the particular study site he happened to use as a springboard for his sweeping postulate of a lifeless abyss.
Anaximenes may have also been the first to study rainbows and speculate upon their natural rather than supernatural cause. 
Biologists use the scanning electron microscope to study the detailed architecture of cell surfaces.
The transmission electron microscope, on the other hands, is used to study the details of internal cell structure.
Electron microscopes have truly revolutionized the study of cells and cell organelles.
One problem with electron microscopes is that they cannot be used to study living specimens because the specimen must be held in a vacuum chamber; that is, all the air and liquid must be removed.
The size of a cell often determines the type of microscope a biologist uses to study it. 
The assessment of past rises and falls in sea level requires study of submerged land surfaces off the coast and of raised of elevated beaches on land.
