Expanding populations are subjecting the land to increasing pressures to provide them with food and fuel.
The subjects of the paintings are mostly animals.
Continued sedimentation  the process of deposits   settling on the sea bottom  buries the organic matter and subjects it to higher temperatures and pressures, which convert the organic matter to oil and gas.
Wildman and Niles were particularly interested in investigating the conditions under which reflection might flourish Ca subject on which there is little guidance in the literature.
Indeed, stability of the biological clock's period is one of its major features, even when the organism's environment is subjected to considerable changes in factors, such as temperature, that would be expected to affect biological activity strongly.
Claims such as "the best" or "better than" can be subjective and misleading; even adults may be unsure as to their meaning.
Nomadism also subjects pastoralist communities to strict rules of portability.
However, similar changes occurred when the subjects were asked simply to open their mouths or to breathe deeply.
The new candid photography  unposed pictures that were made when the subjects were unaware that their pictures were being taken  confirmed these scientific results, and at the same time, thanks to the radical cropping (trimming) of images that the camera often imposed, suggested new compositional formats.
Third, is it possible to interpret accurately the subject matter of ancient rock art, bring to bear all available archaeological techniques and the knowledge of present-day Aboriginal informants?
If so, the green algae would have been subjected to environmental pressures that resulted in adaptations that enhanced their potential to give rise to land-dwelling or organisms.
Only the individuals of a species are subject to the pressures of natural selection.
Since seagrass systems exist in both sheltered and relatively open areas, they are subject to differing amounts of water motion.
Seagrass beds also decline if they are subjected to too much exposure to the air.
Guthrie has also demonstrated that the landscape must have been subject to intense and continuous winds, especially in winter.
This was an architecture of dominance in which subject peoples were literally made to feel small by buildings that epitomized imperial power.
