These Kinetoscope arcades were modeled on phonograph parlors, which had proven successful for Edison several years earlier.
Even if this process proves successful, however, it would almost triple water costs.
The basic cultural requirements for the successful colonization of the Pacific islands include the appropriate boat-building, sailing, and navigation skills to get to the islands in the first place, domesticated plants and gardening skills suited to often marginal conditions, and a varied inventory of fishing implements and techniques.
The better able the person is to reconstruct the perspective from which the material was encoded, the more likely that recall will be successful. 
Lichens were probably the first successful flora.
The answer lies apparently not in the increased energy costs of exaggerated begging  such energy costs are small relative to the potential gain in calories  but rather in the damage that any successful cheater would do to its siblings, which share genes with one another.
Survival and successful reproduction usually require the activities of animals to be coordinated with predictable events around them.
So the most successful groups of land plants are those that evolved methods of fertilized sex cell dispersal that are independent of water and structures that protest developing embryos from drying out.
Although copper and stone tools continued to be used, bronze was far more successful in creating sharp edges that could be used as anything from saws and scythes to weapons.
His name was Benoit Fourneyron, and his device was the first successful water turbine.
Whether Head Start is seen as successful or not depends on the lens through which ore is looking.
Moreover, through no fault of his own, Forbes was not particularly successful at sampling such life as did exist at the bottom of the Aegean.
Is translocation successful if the individuals survive the first week or a year, or do they need to reproduce for one or several generations  Whatever the answer, it is clear that a general framework is required to ensure that any translocation is justified, has a realistic chance of success, and will be properly monitored and evaluated for the benefit of future efforts. 
A successful translocation exercise also appears to have been achieved with red howler monkeys in French Guiana.
Firefighters became much more successful at achieving that goal after 1945, thanks to improved firefighting technology.
Even fishes can become successful filter-feeders in some circumstances Although the vast majority of marine fishes are carnivores, in near-surface regions of high productivity the concentrations of larger phytoplankton (the plant component of plankton) are sufficient to support huge populations of filter-feeding sardines and anchovies.
There are, therefore, fewer successful filter-feeders in deep water, and some of those that are there have larger filtering systems to cope with the scarcity of particles.
The Italians made energetic and successful efforts to catch up with Germany.
Their most successful scriptorium quickly imported two leading German printers to set up presses in their book-producing shop.
