Another, advanced in the twentieth century, suggests that humans have a gift for fantasy, through which they seek to reshape reality into more satisfying forms than those encountered in daily life.
Timberline trees are normally evergreens, suggesting that these have some advantage over deciduous trees (those that lose their leaves) in the extreme environments of the upper timberline.
It has been suggested that Pakicetus fed on fish in shallow water and was not yet adapted for life in the open ocean.
Mathematical models of ecosystems likewise suggest that diversity does not guarantee ecosystem stability  just the opposite, in fact.
Some of those slabs appear to have been painted as much as 28,000 years ago, which suggests that painting in Africa is as old as painting in Europe.
This theory is suggested by evidence of chips in the painted figures, perhaps made by spears thrown at the drawings.
The data they present suggest that the animals portrayed in the cave paintings were mostly the ones that the painters preferred for meat and for materials such as hides.
It has been suggested that these figurines were an ideal type or an expression of a desire for fertility. 
Later Heyerdahl suggested that the Pacific was peopled by three migrations: by Native Americans from the Pacific Northwest of North America drifting to Hawaii, by Peruvians drifting to Easter Island, and by Melanesians.
Detailed studies of the winds and currents using computer simulations suggest that drifting canoes would have been a most unlikely means of colonizing the Pacific.
Furthermore, the gypsum was found to possess peculiarities of composition and structure that suggested it had formed on desert flats.
Yet it would be wrong to suggest that Rome was somehow a junior partner in Greco-Roman civilization.
Dissatisfaction with conventional explanations for dinosaur extinctions led to a surprising observation that, in turn, has suggested a new hypothesis.
These calculations suggest that a period of about one million years would have been required.
However, other reliable evidence suggests that the deposition of the boundary clay could not have taken one million years.
Photographic evidence suggests that liquid water once existed in great quantity on the surface of Mars.
Other researchers go even further, suggesting that the data provide evidence for large open expenses of water on the early Martian surface.
Yet even setting aside the unproven hints of ancient oceans, the extent of the outflow channels suggests that a huge total volume of water existed on Mars in the past.
Fladmark  s hypothesis received additional support form from the fact that the greatest diversity in native American languages occurs along the west coast of the Americas, suggesting that this region has been settled the longest. 
One study suggests that except for a 250-mile coastal area between southwestern British Columbia and Washington State, the Northwest Coast of North America was largely free of ice by approximately 16,000 years ago.
It has been suggested that if the environment were capable of supporting breeding populations of bears, there would have been enough food resources to support humans.
The coastal hypothesis suggests an economy based on marine mammal hunting, saltwater fishing, shellfish gathering, and the use of watercraft.
The work of Wildman and Niles suggests the importance of recognizing some of the difficulties of instituting reflective practice.
While these records provide broadly consistent indications that temperature variations can occur on a global scale, there are nonetheless some intriguing differences, which suggest that the pattern of temperature variations in regional climates can also differ significantly from each other.
Studies suggest that to date the variability in computer simulations is considerably smaller than in data obtained from the proxy records.
The part of the brain responsible for fine control and movement is located in the left cerebral hemisphere, and the findings above suggest that the human brain was already asymmetrical in its structure and function not long after 2 million years ago.
The author George Comstock suggested that less than a quarter of children between the ages of six and eight years old understood standard disclaimers used in many toy advertisements and that disclaimers are more readily comprehended when presented in both audio and visual formats.
Archaeological evidence suggests that by 3000 B.C., and perhaps even earlier, there had emerged on the steppes of Inner Eurasia the distinctive types of pastoralism that were to dominate the region's history for several millennia.
American paleontologists David Raup and John Sepkoski, who have studied extinction rates in a number of fossil groups, suggest that episodes of increased extinction have recurred periodically, approximately every 26 million years since the mid-Cretaceous period.
Of the various hypotheses attempting to account for the late Cretaceous extinctions, the one that has attracted the most attention in recent years is the asteroid-impact hypothesis first suggested by Luis and Walter Alvarez.
A location called Chicxulub, along the Yucatan coast, has been suggested as the primary impact site.
Because there is no space in the periodic table between these two elements, Mendeleyev suggested that the atomic mass of indium be changed to a completely different value, where it would fill an empty space between cadmium and tin.
For example, a gap just below aluminum suggested a new element would be found with properties analogous to those of aluminum.
It has been suggested that yawning and hiccupping might serve to clear out the fetuses airways.
The empirical evidence, such as it is, suggests an altogether different function for yawning  namely, that yawning prepares us for a change in activity level.
Another suggestion is that before children can talk about past events in their lives, they need to have a reasonable understanding of the self as a psychological entity.
A final suggestion is that children must begin to develop a "theory of mind"  an awareness of the concept of mental states (feelings, desires, beliefs, and thoughts), their own and those of others  before they can talk about their own past memories.
The new candid photography  unposed pictures that were made when the subjects were unaware that their pictures were being taken  confirmed these scientific results, and at the same time, thanks to the radical cropping (trimming) of images that the camera often imposed, suggested new compositional formats.
However, detailed studies of the chondrite matrix suggest that much of it, too, has been formed by condensation or melting in the nebula, although minute amounts of surviving interstellar dust are mixed with the processed materials.
In the 1970s when the study of Australian archaeology was in an exciting phase of development, with the great antiquity of rock art becoming clear, Lesley Maynard, the archaeologist who coined the phrase   Panaramitee style,   suggested that a sequence could be determined for Australian rock art, in which a geometric style gave way to a simple figurative style (outlines of figures and animals), followed by a range of complex figurative styles that, unlike the pan-Australian geometric tradition tended to much greater regional diversity.
Although the height of the Little Ice Age was still around the corner, some evidence suggests that temperatures were falling during the thirteenth century.
Today green algae live mainly in freshwater, suggesting that their early evolutionary history may have occurred in freshwater habitats.
Objects themselves suggest that they were the work of skilled professionals.
Wilson suggested that the long chain of volcanoes stretching northwest from Hawaii is simply the surface expression of a long-lived volcanic source located beneath the tectonic plate in the mantle.
Although this idea was not immediately accepted, the dating of lavas in the Hawaii (and other) chains showed that their ages increase away from the presently active volcano, just as Daly had suggested.
The widespread distribution of pastoral sites of this period suggests that the Saharans ranged their herds over widely separated summer and winter grazing grounds. 
However, biologists also noted that deer sniff and lick an unfamiliar rub, which suggests that this visual mark on a small tree plays an important communication purpose in the social life of deer.
In view of this behavior it has been suggested that chemicals present in fresh buck rubs may help physiologically induce and synchronize fertility in females that visit these rubs.
The first documented English mill was in the eighth century, but three centuries later about 5,000 were recorded, suggesting that every settlement of any size had its mill.
The four-toed Eohippus preceded the three-toed Miohippus, for example, but North American fossil evidence suggests a jerky, uneven transition between the two.
Finally, some research suggests that ultimately Head Start graduates show higher academic performance at the end of high school, although the gains are modest. 
The most recent comprehensive evaluation of early intervention programs suggests that, taken as a group, preschools programs can provide significant benefits, and that government funds invested early in life may ultimately lead to a reduction in future costs.
Still, the results of the evaluation were promising, suggesting that the potential benefits of early intervention can be substantial. 
Frequent fire is a factor to which rain forest species seem unable to adapt, although ancient charcoal remains from Amazon forest soils dating prior to the arrival of humans suggest that moist forests also occasionally burn.
Experiments suggest that if fire did not occur in savannas in the Americas, species composition would change significantly.
Evidence from other studies suggests that exclusion of fire results in markedly decreased plant-species richness, often with an increase in tree density.
Evidence suggests that an important stimulus behind the rise of early civilizations was the development of settled agriculture, which unleashed a series of changes in the organization of human communities that culminated in the rise of large ancient empires.
Archaeologist Donald Henry suggests that the combination of a rich habitat and sedentism (permanent, year-round settlement) led to a dramatic increase in human population.
Considering that seasonal succession is most often and clearly seen in temperate seas, which have a marked change in temperature during a year, temperature has been suggested as a cause.
Another suggested reason is the change in nutrient level over the year, with differing concentrations favoring different phytoplankton species.
While this factor may also contribute, observations suggest that phytoplankton populations rise and fall much more quickly than nutrient concentrations change.
There is also evidence to suggest that grazers (animals that feed on plants or stationary animals), particularly selective grazers, can influence the phytoplankton species composition.
A growing body of evidence now suggests that all of the factors considered here are operating simultaneously to produce species succession.
As it turned out, the existence of the azoic zone had been disproved even before Forbes suggested it, and the theory continued to be contradicted regularly throughout its long and influential life.
On the negative side, opponents of transgenic crops suggest that there are many questions that need to be answered before transgenic crops are grown on a large scale.
The strength of the Athenian aristocracy was further weakened during the rest of the century by the rise of a type of government known as a tyranny, which is a form of interim rule by a popular strongman (not rule by a ruthless dictator as the modem use of the term suggests to us).
Studies of how stars evolve suggest that the early Sun was only about 70 percent as luminous as it is now, so the temperature in Venus   early atmosphere must have been quite a bit lower.
Many archaeologists and paleobotanists now question this view, pointing out that the available evidence for cultivated vines and olives suggests that they were present only in the later Bronze Age.
He suggested that the lowland Mayan environment was deficient in many vital resources, among them obsidian, salt, stone for grinding maize, and many luxury materials.
In fact, several scientists have suggested that the duckbill dinosaurs and horned dinosaurs, with their complex battery of grinding teeth, evolved to exploit this new resource of rapidly growing flowering plants.
These differences suggest a sadlike cavity below the front end of the gut that can only be interpreted as a lung.
Evidence from teeth suggests that these earliest tetrapods did not utilize land plants as food; they were presumably carnivorous and had not developed the ability to feed on plants.
The room shown in it closely resembles the room in other Vermeer paintings, with lighting coming from a window on the left, the same roof beams, and similar floor tiles, suggesting that the room was fitted with a camera obscura on the side in the foreground.
Although marine botanist W. A. Setchell suggested early on that temperature was critical to the growth and reproduction of eelgrass, it has since been shown that this particularly widespread seagrass grows and reproduces at temperatures between 2 and 4 degrees Celsius in the Arctic and at temperatures up to 28 degrees Celsius on the northeastern coast of the United States.
At one time, these were thought to represent embryonic animals, suggesting that this small dinosaur gave birth to live young rather than laying eggs.
Studies suggest that precipitation may be greater in cities than in the surrounding countryside; this phenomenon may be due in part to the increased roughness of city terrain, brought on by large structures that cause surface air to slow and gradually converge.
