Such legs would have been far too small to have supported the 50-foot-long Basilosaurus on land.
In order for the structure to achieve the size and strength necessary to meet its purpose, architecture employs methods of support that, because they are based on physical laws, have changed little since people first discovered them  even while building materials have changed dramatically.
Modern architectural forms generally have three separate components comparable to elements of the human body: a supporting skeleton or frame, an outer skin enclosing the interior spaces, and equipment, similar to the body  s vital organs and systems.
The doorways and windows are made possible by placing over the open spaces thick stone beams that support the weight from above.
As a method of spanning space, the arch can support greater weight than a horizontal beam.
This region has a semiarid climate, and for 50 years after its settlement, it supported a low-intensity agricultural economy of cattle ranching and wheat farming.
It is projected that the remaining Ogallala water will, by the year 2030, support only 35 to 40 percent of the irrigated acreage in Texas that is supported in 1980.
Many ecologists now think that the relative long-term stability of climax communities comes not from diversity but from the   patchiness   of the environment, an environment that varies from place to place supports more kinds of organisms than an environment that is uniform.
Some soils are notoriously deficient in micro nutrients and are therefore unable to support most plant life.
The undisputed pre-Columbian presence in Oceania of the sweet potato, which is a New World domesticate, has sometimes been used to support Heyerdahl  s   American Indians in the Pacific   theories.
The brain  s level of physiological maturation may support these types of memories, but not ones requiring explicit verbal descriptions. 
This view is supported by a variety of factors that can create mismatches between very young children's encoding and older children's and adults' retrieval efforts.
These three explanations of infantile amnesia are not mutually exclusive; indeed, they support each other.
Their absence supports the picture of a cold, dry Mars that never experienced the extended mild period required to form lakes and oceans.
But belief in this ice-free corridor began to crumble when paleoecologist Glen MacDonald demonstrated that some of the most important radiocarbon dates used to support the existence of an ice-free corridor were incorrect.
Fladmark  s hypothesis received additional support form from the fact that the greatest diversity in native American languages occurs along the west coast of the Americas, suggesting that this region has been settled the longest. 
The coastal hypothesis has gained increasing support in recent years because the remains of large land animals, such as caribou and brown bears, have been found in southeastern Alaska dating between 10,000 and 12,500 years ago.
It has been suggested that if the environment were capable of supporting breeding populations of bears, there would have been enough food resources to support humans.
The teachers were taken through a program of talking about teaching events, moving on to reflecting about specific issues in a supported, and later an independent, manner. 
The first is support from administrators in an education system, enabling teachers to understand the requirements of reflective practice and how it relates to teaching students.
The third is the development of a collaborative environment with support from other teachers.
From a practical aspect this protected the figures against breakage and psychologically gives the images a sense of strength and power, usually enhanced by a supporting back pillar.
This prediction was supported by data collected in one survey of 24 species from an Arizona forest, more evidence that predator pressure favors the evolution of begging calls that are hard to detect and pinpoint.
Basaltic rocks also support springs, notably at the Jabal Al-Arab on the Jordan-Syria border.
From north to south in the Yucatan Peninsula, where the Maya lived, rainfall ranges from 18 to 100 inches (457 to 2,540 millimeters) per year, and the soils become thicker, so that the southern peninsula was agriculturally more productive and supported denser populations.
However, the larger the terrain used to support a group, the harder it is to exploit that terrain while remaining in one place.
This iridium anomaly offers strong support for the Alvarez hypothesis even though no asteroid itself has ever been recovered.
The close correspondence between the observed properties of gallium and Mendeleyev  s predictions for eka-aluminum lent strong support to the periodic law.
Additional support came in 1885 when eka-silicon, which had also been described in advance by Mendeleyev, was discovered and named germanium.
About the closest any research has come to supporting the tiredness theory is to confirm that adults yawn more often on weekdays than at weekends, and that school children yawn more frequently in their first year at primary school than they do in kindergarten.
Abu Hureyra was founded about 9500B.C, a small village settlement of cramped pit dwellings (houses dug partially in the soil) with reed roofs supported by wooden uprights.
As lava flows and spreads to form a shield volcano, the volcano's eventual height depends on the new mountain's ability to support its own weight.
In addition, other lines of evidence support the hypothesis that land plants evolved from ancestral green algae used the same type of chlorophyll and accessory pigments in photosynthesis as do land plants.
On land, the supportive buoyancy of water is missing, the plant is no longer bathed in a nutrient solution, and air tends to dry things out.
These conditions favored the evolution of the structures that support the body, vessels that transport water and nutrients to all parts of plant, and structures that conserve water.
These include conducting vessels that transport water and minerals upward from the roots and that move the photosynthetic products from the leaves to the rest of the plant body and the stiffening substance lignin, which support the plant body, helping it expose maximum surface area to sunlight.
While population estimates are notoriously unreliable, scholars assume that Uruk inhabitants were able to support themselves from the agricultural production of the field surrounding the city, which could be reached with a daily commute.
It has been estimated that Monte Testaccio contains the remains of some 53 million amphorae, in which around 6,000 million liters of oil were imported into the city from overseas, imports into imperial Rome were supported by the full might of the state and were therefore quite exceptional  but the size of the operations at Monte Testaccio, and the productivity and complexity that lay behind them, nonetheless cannot fail to impress.
Darwin  s original thesis and the viewpoint supported by evolutionary gradualists, is that species change continuously but slowly and in small increments.
A convincing 50-million-year sequence of modern horse ancestors    each slightly larger, with more complex teeth, a longer face, and a more prominent central toe    seemed to provide strong support for Darwin  s contention that species evolve gradually.
More moderate conditions support moist forests. 
Though most savannas are found on sites with poor soils(because of either moisture conditions or nutrient levels of both), poor soils can and do support lush rain forest. 
For this reason, a soil scientist can tell a great deal about the attributes of the soil in any given area simply form knowing what kind of flora the soil supports.
More recent data, however, provide additional support for Kettleweir  s ideas about natural selection.
The fundamental premise of modern architecture was that the appearance of the building should exhibit the nature of its materials and forms of physical support.
Similarly, steel beams could be used to construct balconies that projected out from the building without any support beneath them.
Steel construction, on the other hand, can support a building of 50 or 100 stories without difficulty.
The metal supporting buildings became soft when exposed to fire and collapsed relatively quickly.
The terra-cotta tiles were used both to encase the supporting members and as flooring.
The control of coyotes in the prairie region in the 1950s may have been a factor in raccoon expansion, If their numbers are sufficient coyotes might be able to suppress raccoon populations (though little direct evidence supports this notion).
The tropics contain a larger surface area of land than higher latitudes  a fact that is not always evident when we examine commonly used projections of Earth's curved surface, since this tends to exaggerate the areas of land in the higher latitudes-and some biogeographers regard the differences in diversity as a reflection of this effect But an analysis of the data by biologist Klaus Rohde does not support this explanation.
Two additional kinds of evidence support the hypothesis that petroleum is a product of the decomposition of organic matter: oil possesses optical properties known only in hydrocarbons derived from organic matter, and oil contains nitrogen and certain compounds believed to originate only in living matter.
This land mass supported herds of now-extinct species of mammoth, bison, and horse and somewhat modern versions of caribou, musk ox, elk, and saiga antelope.
These grazers supported in turn a number of impressive carnivores, including the giant short-faced bear, the saber-tooth cat, and a large species of lion.
The presence of mammal species that require grassland vegetation has led Arctic biologist Dale Guthrie to argue that while cold and dry, there must have been broad areas of dense vegetation to support herds of mammoth, horse, and bison.
Further, nearly all of the ice-age fauna had teeth that indicate an adaptation to grasses and sedges; they could not have been supported by a modern flora of mosses and lichens.
He found that the amount of pollen recovered in these sediments is so low that the Beringian landscape during the peak of the last glaciation was more likely to have been what he termed a "polar desert," with little or only sparse vegetation, in no way was it possible that this region could have supported large herds of mammals and thus, human hunters.
But this vegetation had a thin root mat with no soil formation, demonstrating that there was little long-term stability in plant cover, a finding supporting some of the arguments of Colinvaux.
A mixture of continuous but thin vegetation supporting herds of large mammals is one that seems plausible and realistic with the available data.
Even fishes can become successful filter-feeders in some circumstances Although the vast majority of marine fishes are carnivores, in near-surface regions of high productivity the concentrations of larger phytoplankton (the plant component of plankton) are sufficient to support huge populations of filter-feeding sardines and anchovies.
One of the first studies to provide data supporting a relationship between diversity and stability examined how grassland plants responded to a drought.
The existence of Beringia (and the extent to which it could have supported human life) is one of the crucial pieces of evidence in the continuing debate about the likely route and date of human colonization of the New World.
