But note that porosity is not the same as permeability, which measures the ease with which water can flow through a material; this depends on the sizes of the individual cavities and the crevices linking them.
Under this theory, relating and listening to stories are seen as fundamental human pleasures.
One, set forth by Aristotle in the fourth century B.C., sees humans as naturally imitative  as taking pleasure in imitating persons, things, and actions and in seeing such imitations.
The semiarid lands bordering the deserts exist in a delicate ecological balance and are limited in their potential to adjust to increased environmental pressures.
Expanding populations are subjecting the land to increasing pressures to provide them with food and fuel.
During the dry periods that are common phenomena along the desert margins, though, the pressure on the land is often far in excess of its diminished capacity, and desertification results. 
The increased pressures of expanding populations have led to the removal of woody plants so that many cities and towns are surrounded by large areas completely lacking in trees and shrubs.
Progress in this area can be measured by the difference in weight between buildings built now and those of comparable size built one hundred years ago.
In general, diversity, by itself, does not ensure stability.
But for the black-tailed deer, human pressure has had just the opposite effect.
Second, conservation has been insured by limiting times for and types of hunting.
Continued sedimentation  the process of deposits   settling on the sea bottom  buries the organic matter and subjects it to higher temperatures and pressures, which convert the organic matter to oil and gas.
When the well reaches a pool, oil usually rises up the well because of its density difference with water beneath it or because of the pressure of expanding gas trapped above it.
Gas pressure gradually dies out, and oil is pumped from the well.
Early in the eighteenth century, a pump had come into use in which expanding steam raised a piston in a cylinder, and atmospheric pressure brought it down again when the steam condensed inside the cylinder to form a vacuum.
The Hellas Basin, which measures some 3,000 kilometers across and has a floor that lies nearly 9 kilometers below the basin  s rim, is another candidate for an ancient Martian sea.
One of the most difficult aspects of deciding whether current climatic events reveal evidence of the impact of human activities is that it is hard to get a measure of what constitutes the natural variability of the climate.
Instrumental records do not go back far enough to provide us with reliable measurements of global climatic variability on timescales longer than a century.
To the extent that the coverage of the global climate from these records can provide a measure of its true variability, it should at least indicate how all the natural causes of climate change have combined.
This prediction was supported by data collected in one survey of 24 species from an Arizona forest, more evidence that predator pressure favors the evolution of begging calls that are hard to detect and pinpoint.
To be sure, their evaluation of the technical flaws in 1920s sound experiments was not so far off the mark, yet they neglected to take into account important new forces in the motion picture field that, in a sense, would not take no for an answer.
Like almost all daily cycles of animals deprived of environmental cues, those measured for the horseshoe crabs in these conditions were not exactly 24 hours.
The difference between the two measures provides the researcher with an indication of the level and duration of the response to the stimulus.
Precise measurements can be made of the length and frequency of the infant's attention between two stimuli.
Increases in nonnutritive sucking were first used as an assessment measure by researchers in 1969.
With these sophisticated observational assessment and electro-physiological measures, we know that the neonate of only a few days is far more perceptive than previously suspected.
However, these measures are only "indirect" indicators of the infant's perceptual abilities.
Claims such as "the best" or "better than" can be subjective and misleading; even adults may be unsure as to their meaning.
With additional time, pressure, and refrozen meltwater from above, the small firn granules become larger, interlocked crystals of blue glacial ice.
A surplus allows snow to accumulate and for the pressure of snow accumulated over the years to transform buried snow into glacial ice with a depth great enough for the ice to flow.
The next step was to recognize a connection between group properties (physical or chemical similarities) and atomic mass (the measured mass of an individual atom of an element).
Mendeleyev was bolder than Meyer and even assumed that if a measured atomic mass put an element in the wrong place in the table, the atomic mass was wrong.
When researchers measured the heart rate, muscle tension and skin conductance of people before, during and after yawning, they did detect some changes in skin conductance following yawning, indicating a slight increase in physiological activity.
It might be that yawning helps to clear out the lungs by periodically lowering the pressure in them.
Recent measurements made in the field together with laboratory simulations offer a promising explanation of how this structure of charged particles forms.
Succession is influenced by many factors: the nature of the soil, exposure to sun and wind, regularity of precipitation, chance colonizations, and many other random processes.
Isotopic analysis of shells allowed geologists to measure another glacial effect.
The rocks are fractured by water pumped down at very high pressures.
The idea of a world population crisis is therefore unlikely, although population pressure might have arisen in some areas.
Study of the textures of chondrules confirms that they cooled rather quickly, in times measured in minutes or hours, so the heating events that formed them must have been localized.
Furthermore, the designs were covered with   desert varnish,   a glaze that develops on rock surfaces over thousands of years of exposure to the elements.
Then exchanges with the atmosphere are calculated by finding the difference between the gains from rain, as measured (rather roughly) by rain gauges, and the losses by evaporation, measured with models that correct for the other sources of water loss.
If so, the green algae would have been subjected to environmental pressures that resulted in adaptations that enhanced their potential to give rise to land-dwelling or organisms.
They possess drought-resisting adaptations: loss of water through the leaves is reduced by means of dense hairs covering waxy leaf surfaces, by the closure of pores during the hottest times to reduce water loss, and by the rolling up or shedding of leaves at the beginning of the dry season.
These have adapted to the environment by the development of long taproots that penetrate downward until they approach the assured water supply provided by groundwater.
At greater depths within Earth, the pressure of the overlying rock causes pores and cracks to close, reducing the space that pore water can occupy, and almost complete closure occurs at a depth of about 10 kilometers.
Thus, the presence of many well-marked rubs is indicative of older, higher-status males being in the general vicinity rather than simply being a crude measure of relative deer abundance in a given area.
Only the individuals of a species are subject to the pressures of natural selection.
Another potential cost of this activity is greater exposure to predators since play is attention-getting behavior.
But a lot more studies like Sheldon  s are needed before we can say for sure.
Society needed a more dependable instrument of time measurement and found it in the mechanical clock. 
The result was relentless pressure to improve technique and design.
In fact, according to developmental psychologist David Elkind, United States society tends to push children so rapidly that they begin to feel tress and pressure at a young age.
As well as can be measured, rural standards of living improved in the Fifth Reign.
But the statistical averages mean little when measured against the harsh realities of peasant life.
What did these measurements show the researchers?
Is translocation successful if the individuals survive the first week or a year, or do they need to reproduce for one or several generations  Whatever the answer, it is clear that a general framework is required to ensure that any translocation is justified, has a realistic chance of success, and will be properly monitored and evaluated for the benefit of future efforts. 
Also important is resolving power, a measure of the clarity of an image.
Even though raccoons may not have been a significant part of their diet, wolves surely would have tried to prey on those exposed in relatively treeless areas.
By any measure other than that of the aristocrats  who had been upstaged by the supposedly inferior "people," the Athenian democracy was a stunning success.
One species of North American newt is still active when temperatures drop to -2*C while one South American frog feels comfortable even when temperatures rise to 41*C  the highest body temperature measured in a free-ranging amphibian.
Additionally, in many speeds the tolerance boundaries are flexible and can change as a result of acclimatization (long-term exposure to particular conditions).
In many respects, such as education, occupation, and leisure activities, their life is like that of other groups that contribute to the diverse social fabric of North American culture in the twenty-first century.
Although the temperature would have climbed above 100   C, the boiling point of water at sea level on Earth, the added atmospheric pressure from water vapor would have kept the water in Venus' oceans in the liquid state.
But as the Sun  s energy output slowly increased over time, the temperature at the surface would eventually have risen above 374  C. Above this temperature, no matter what the atmospheric pressure, Venus   oceans would have begun to evaporate, and the added water vapor in the atmosphere would have increased the greenhouse effect.
Measurements of its gravity field tell us that the rock and metal sank to form a core about the size of our Moon, with a mantle and crust of ice floating above it.
Over 60 years ago, Sir Gilbert Walker, a British scientist, discovered a connection between surface pressure readings at weather stations on the eastern and western sides of the Pacific.
He noted that a rise in atmospheric pressure in the eastern Pacific is usually accompanied by a fall in pressure in the western Pacific and vice versa.
During a typical year, the eastern Pacific has a higher pressure than the western Pacific does.
This east-to-west pressure gradient enhances the trade winds over the equatorial waters.
However, in other years the Southern Oscillation, for unknown reasons, swings in the opposite direction, dramatically changing the usual conditions described above, with pressure increasing in the western.
This change in the pressure gradient causes the trade winds to weaken or, in some cases, to reverse.
Scientists try to document as many past El Nino events as possible by piecing together bits of historical evidence, such as sea-surface temperature records, daily observations of atmospheric pressure and rainfall, fisheries   records from South America, and the writings of Spanish colonists dating back to the fifteenth century.
What ecological pressures might have caused fishes to gradually abandon their watery habitat and become increasingly land-dwelling creatures?
The edges of ponds and streams surely had scattered dead fish and other water-dwelling creatures.
The precursor of the modern camera, the camera obscura is a darkened enclosure into which light is admitted through a lens in a small hole.
The image of the illuminated area outside the enclosure is thrown upside down as if by magic onto a surface in the darkened enclosure.
According to ecologist J. W. Kenworthy, anaerobic processes of the microorganisms in the sediment are an important mechanism for regenerating and recycling nutrients and carbon, ensuring the high rates of productivity  that is, the amount of organic material produced-that are measured in those beds.
Seagrass beds also decline if they are subjected to too much exposure to the air.
So when a conqueror set a Mesopotamian palace ablaze, he helped ensure the survival of any clay tablets in it.
The literature of the Sumerians was treasured throughout the Near East, and long after Sumerian ceased to be spoken, the Babylonians and Assyrians and others kept it alive as a literary language, the way Europeans kept Latin alive after the fall of Rome.
In herbivorous animals, rapid jaw closure is less important.
Overall, the heat island is strongest (1) at night when compensating sunlight is absent; (2) during the winter, when nights are longer and there is more heat generated in the city; and (3) when the region is dominated by a high-pressure area with light winds, clear skies, and less humid air.
On clear still nights when the heat island is pronounced, a small thermal low-pressure area forms over the city.
At the same time, people were moving to the city, partly because of the enclosure movement; that is, the fencing of common fields and pastures in order to provide more compact, efficient privately held agricultural parcels that would produce more goods and greater profits.
In the sixteenth century enclosures were usually used for creating sheep pastures, but by the eighteenth century new farming techniques made it advantageous for large landowners to seek enclosures in order to improve agricultural production.
