In 1979, a team looking for fossils in northern Pakistan found what proved to be the oldest fossil whale.
The client who pays for the building and defines its function is an important member of the architectural team.
Water or steam may be pumped down adjacent wells to help push the oil out.
Early in the eighteenth century, a pump had come into use in which expanding steam raised a piston in a cylinder, and atmospheric pressure brought it down again when the steam condensed inside the cylinder to form a vacuum.
In the 1760s, James Watt perfected a separate condenser for the steam, so that the cylinder did not have to be cooled at every stroke; then he devised a way to make the piston turn a wheel and thus convert reciprocating (back and forth) motion into rotary motion.
He thereby transformed an inefficient pump of limited use into a steam engine of a thousand uses.
The final step came when steam was introduced into the cylinder to drive the piston backward as well as forward, thereby increasing the speed of the engine and cutting its fuel consumption.
Watt's steam engine soon showed what it could do.
Iron manufacturers, which had starved for fuel while depending on charcoal, also benefited from ever-increasing supplies of coal: blast furnaces with steam-powered bellows turned out more iron and steel for the new machinery.
Steam became the motive force of the Industrial Revolution as coal and iron ore were the raw materials.
By 1800 more than a thousand steam engines were in use in the British Isles, and Britain retained a virtual monopoly on steam engine production until the 1830s.
Steam power did not merely spin cotton and roll iron; early in the new century, it also multiplied ten times over the amount of paper that a single worker could produce in a day.
At the same time, operators of the first printing presses run by steam rather than by hand found it possible to produce a thousand pages in an hour rather than thirty.
Steam also promised to eliminate a transportation problem not fully solved by either canal boats or turnpikes.
In some industrial regions, heavily laden wagons, with flanged wheels, were being hauled by horses along metal rails; and the stationary steam engine was puffing in the factory and mine.
This was before the steam locomotive, and canal building was at its height.
For example, the stronger the primary group ties of a sports team playing together, the better their record is.
This is the same arrangement found in an old-fashioned steam radiator, in which the coiled pipes pass heat back and forth as water  courses through them.
The people of the Netherlands, with a long tradition of fisheries and mercantile shipping, had difficulty in developing good harbors suitable for steamships: eventually they did so at Rotterdam and Amsterdam, with exceptional results for transit trade with Germany and central Europe and for the processing of overseas foodstuffs and raw materials (sugar, tobacco, chocolate, grain, and eventually oil).
First came the steamboat; although flatboats and keelboats continued to be important until the 1850  s steamboats eventually superseded all other craft in the carrying of passengers and freight.
Steamboats were not only faster but also transported upriver freight for about one tenth of what it had previously cost on hand-propelled keelboats.
The water is brought to the surface, as a liquid or steam, through holes drilled for the purpose.
They occur primarily in regions of recent volcanic activity as hot, dry rock; natural hot water; or natural steam.
The world's largest supply of natural steam occurs at The Geysers, 120 kilometers north of San Francisco, California.
At present, we can make efficient use of only naturally occurring hot water or steam deposits.
This was to occur with progress in the development of the steam engine.
In the late 1700s James Watt designed an efficient and commercially viable steam engine that was soon applied to a variety of industrial uses as it became cheaper to use.
The engine helped solve the problem of draining coal mines of groundwater and increased the production of coal needed to power steam engines elsewhere.
A rotary engine attached to the steam engine enabled shafts to be turned and machines to be driven, resulting in mills using steam power to spin and weave cotton.
Since the steam engine was fired by coal, the large mills did not need to be located by rivers, as had mills that used water- driven machines.
The success of the steam engine resulted in increased demands for coal, and the consequent increase in coal production was made possible as the steam-powered pumps drained water from the ever-deeper coal seams found below the water table.
The availability of steam power and the demands for new machines facilitated the transformation of the iron industry.
Charcoal, made from wood and thus in limited supply, was replaced with coal-derived coke (substance left after coal is heated) as steam-driven bellows came into use for producing of raw iron.
Reduced cost was also instrumental in developing steam-powered rolling mills capable of producing finished iron of various shapes and sizes.
Steam power and iron combined to revolutionize transport, which in turn had further implications.
However, the arrival of the steam engine initiated a complete transformation in rail transportation, entrenching and expanding the Industrial Revolution.
But then steam power entered the scene, putting the whole future of waterpower in doubt.
The coal-fired steam engine was taking over, and the waterwheel was fast becoming obsolete.
Unfortunately this early plant experienced the problem common to many forms of renewable energy: the flow in the Wey River was unreliable, and the waterwheel was soon replaced by a steam engine.
But low water made steamboat travel hazardous in summer, and ice shut down traffic in winter.
In an attempt to overcome these disadvantages, Thomas Savery in 1698 and Tomas Newcomen in 1705 invented the first primitive steam engines.
Both burned coal to produce steam, which was then used to operate a pump.
In the early 1760s, a gifted young Scot named James Watt was drawn to a critical study of the steam engine.
This splendid invention, patented in 1769, greatly increased the efficiency of the steam engine.
The steam engine of Watt and his followers was the technological advance that gave people, at least for a whild, unlimited power and allowed the invention and use of all kinds of power equipment.
The steam engine was quickly put to use in several industries in Britain.
It drained mines and made possible the production of ever more coal to feed steam engines elsewhere.
The steam power plant began to replace waterpower in the cotton-spinning mills as well as other industries during the 1780s, contributing to a phenomenal rise in industrialization.
The use of powerful, steam-driven bellows in blast furnaces helped iron makers switch over rapidly from limited charcoal to unlimited coke (which is made from coal) in the smelting of pig iron (the process of refining impure iron) after 1770.
Cort also developed heavy-duty, steam-powered rolling mills, which were capable of producing finished iron in every shape and form.
The economic consequence of these technical innovations in steam power was a great boom in the British iron industry.
