The cinema did not emerge as a form of mass consumption until its technology evolved from the initial "peepshow" format to the point where images were projected on a screen in a darkened theater.
He refused to develop projection technology, reasoning that if he made and sold projectors, then exhibitors would purchase only one machine-a projector-from him instead of several.
Today technology has progressed to the point where it is possible to invent new building materials to suit the type of structure desired.
Advancing technology and strict laws, however, are helping control some of these adverse environmental effects. 
Most of Africa presents a curious case in which societies moved directly from a technology of stone to iron without passing through the intermediate stage of copper or bronze metallurgy, although some early copper-working sites have been found in West Africa.
Much of Africa moved right into the Iron Age, taking the basic technology and adapting it to local conditions and resources.
The high costs of converting to sound and the early limitations of sound technology were among the factors that suppressed innovations or retarded advancement in these other areas.
They were interested in all forms of sound technology and all potential avenues for commercial exploitation.
For years historians have sought to identify crucial elements in the eighteenth-century rise in industry, technology, and economic power Known as the Industrial Revolution, and many give prominence to the problem of energy.
The growth of the electric-power industry was the result of a remarkable series of scientific discoveries and developments in electrotechnology during the nineteenth century, but significant changes in what we might now call hydro (water) technology also played their part.
The power source of this most modern technology was a raditional waterwheel.
From this primitive start, the electric industry grew during the final 20 years of the nineteenth century at a rate seldom if ever exceeded by any technology.
The ways in which new technology transformed architectural design are dramatically illustrated through the evolution of the high-rise office building.
Firefighters became much more successful at achieving that goal after 1945, thanks to improved firefighting technology.
In the Western experience, commerce provided the conditions that allowed industrialization to get started, which in turn led to growth in science, technology, industry, transport, communications, social change, and the like that we group under the broad term of   development.
Even in England, where technology lagged far behind, a sheet of paper, or eight octavo pages, cost only a penny by the fifteenth century. 
Europe in the fifteenth century was a place where intermediate technology-that is, workshops with skilled craftspeople-was well established and spreading fast, especially in Germany and Italy.
The breakthrough came in Great Britain, where several economic advantages created a climate especially favorable to the encouraged of new technology.
