Storytelling has been proposed as one alternative.
Particularly in the younger strata, the rocks were often so similar that he had trouble distinguishing the strata, but he never had trouble telling the fossils apart.
Hearing and telling stories about events may help children store information in ways that will endure into later childhood and adulthood.
Such indeed was the opinion of some of the more intellectual Romans.
This was justified by the view that reflective practice could help teachers to feel more intellectually involved in their role and work in teaching and enable them to cope with the paucity of scientific fact and the uncertainty of knowledge in the discipline of teaching. 
For example, tellurium comes before iodine in the periodic table, even though its atomic mass is slightly greater.
The Sun is the hub of a huge rotating system consisting of nine planets, their satellites, and numerous small bodies, including asteroids, comets, and meteoroids.
Hence a writing tablet dated 25 April tells of 343 men at one fort engaged on tasks like shoemaking, building a bathhouse, operating kilns, digging clay, and working lead.
Pollen samples from freshwater lakes in Syria and elsewhere tell us forest cover expanded rapidly at the end of the Ice Age, for the southwestern Asian climate was still cooler and considerably wetter than today.
Many complex factors led to the adoption of the new economies, not only at Abu Hureyra, but at many other locations such as 'Ain Ghazal, also in Syria, where goat toe bones showing the telltale marks of abrasion caused by foot tethering (binding) testify to early herding of domestic stock.
It is archaeologist Steven Mithen's thesis, brilliantly developed in his book The Prehistory of the Mind (1996), that approximately 40,000 years ago the human mind developed cognitive fluidity, that is, the integration of the specializations of the mind: technical, natural history (geared to understanding the behavior and distribution of natural resources), social intelligence, and the linguistic capacity.
A third possibility is that children will not be able to tell their own "life story" until they understand something about the general form stories take, that is, the structure of narratives.
Knowledge about narratives arises from social interactions, particularly the storytelling that children experience from parents and the attempts parents make to talk with children about past events in their lives.
When broken open, Allende stones are revealed to contain an assortment of small, distinctive objects, spherical or irregular in shape and embedded in a dark gray matrix (binding material), which were once constituents of the solar nebula  the interstellar cloud of gas and dust out of which our solar system was formed.
However, detailed studies of the chondrite matrix suggest that much of it, too, has been formed by condensation or melting in the nebula, although minute amounts of surviving interstellar dust are mixed with the processed materials.
Occasionally, common sense tells you which of these two possibilities applies.
The beveled-rim bowl is one of the most telling diagnostic finds for indentifying an Uruk-period site.
But maps that show the various spots where Roman pottery of a particular type has been found tell only part of the story.
If, for instance, the program is expected to provide long-term increases in IQ(intelligence quotient) scores, it is a disappointment.
For this reason, a soil scientist can tell a great deal about the attributes of the soil in any given area simply form knowing what kind of flora the soil supports.
This exciting burst of intellectual activity was for the most part purely creative.
From 1996 to 1999, the Galileo spacecraft passed through the Jovian system, providing much information about Jupiter's satellites.
Callisto, the outermost of Jupiter's four largest satellites, orbits the planet in seventeen days at a distance from Jupiter of two million kilometers.
This tells us that Callisto has far less of the rocky metallic materials found in the inner planets and must instead be an icy body through much of its interior.
Astronomers can tell that it lacks a dense core from the details of its gravitational pull on the Galileo spacecraft during several very close flybys.
The survival of these craters tells us that an icy object can form and retain impact craters in its surface.
The satellite was bom dead and has remained geologically dead for more than four billion years.
Ganymede, another of Jupiter's satellites and the largest in our solar system, is also cratered, but less so than Callisto.
About one-quarter of its surface seems to be as old and heavily cratered; the rest formed more recently, as we can tell by the sparse covering of impact craters as well as the relative freshness of the craters.
Measurements of its gravity field tell us that the rock and metal sank to form a core about the size of our Moon, with a mantle and crust of ice floating above it.
Now and then these files include pieces of writing that are of a distinctly different order, writings that do not merely record some matter of fact but involve creative intellectual activity.
Information on past climates is primary of relevance to archaeology because of what it tells us about the effects on the land and on the resources that people needed to survive.
