By far the most abundant type of groundwater is meteoric water; this is the groundwater that circulates as part of the water cycle.
At first thought it seems incredible that there can be enough space in the   solid   ground underfoot to hold all this water. 
Beds of this material, out of sight beneath the soil, are common.
The same thing happens to this day, though on a smaller scale, wherever a sediment-laden river or stream emerges from a mountain valley onto relatively flat land, dropping its load as the current slows: the water usually spreads out fanwise, depositing the sediment in the form of a smooth, fan-shaped slope.
But note that porosity is not the same as permeability, which measures the ease with which water can flow through a material; this depends on the sizes of the individual cavities and the crevices linking them.
When this occurs, the first step has been taken toward theater as an autonomous activity, and thereafter entertainment and aesthetic values may gradually replace the former mystical and socially efficacious concerns. 
Under this theory, relating and listening to stories are seen as fundamental human pleasures.
For example, one sign of this condition is the appearance of the comic vision, since comedy requires sufficient detachment to view some deviations from social norms as ridiculous rather than as serious threats to the welfare of the entire group.
At this great height, rocks, warmed by the sun, melt small snowdrifts.
It has been estimated that an additional one-fourth of the Earth's land surface is threatened by this process. 
The increasing use of dried animal waste as a substitute fuel has also hurt the soil because this valuable soil conditioner and source of plant nutrients is no longer being returned to the land. 
Progress in this area can be measured by the difference in weight between buildings built now and those of comparable size built one hundred years ago.
Even if this process proves successful, however, it would almost triple water costs.
Support for this idea came from the observation that long-lasting climax communities usually have more complex food webs and more species diversity than pioneer communities.
But this is fair-weather feeding.
The early explorers and settlers told of abundant deer in the early 1800s and yet almost in the same breath bemoaned the lack of this succulent game animal.
The causes of this population rebound are consequences of other human actions.
Consistent with this idea, according to the investigators, is the fact that the art of the cultural period that followed the Upper Paleolithic also seems to reflect how people got their food.
If this is true, it would mean that Upper Paleolithic people were capable of complex thought and were consciously aware of their environment.
Although this rise of oil is almost always carefully controlled today, spouts of oil, or gushers, were common in the past.
A significant part of this oil and gas comes from under the North Sea between Great Britain and Norway. 
So-called serpentine soils, for example, are deficient in calcium, and only plants able to tolerate low levels of this mineral can survive.
Contrary to the arguments of some that much of the pacific was settled by Polynesians accidentally marooned after being lost and adrift, it seems reasonable that this feat was accomplished by deliberate colonization expeditions that set out fully stocked with food and domesticated plants and animals.
However, this is one plant out of a long list of Southeast Asian domesticates.
Scientists have asked important questions about this explosion for more than a century.
One interpretation regarding the absence of fossils during this important 100-million-year period is that early animals were soft bodied and simply did not fossilize.
Why was this evolution so rapid?
Soon it was realized that this principle of faunal (animal) succession was valid not only in England or France but virtually everywhere.
How might this inability to recall early experiences be explained?
Another seemingly plausible explanation  that infants do not form enduring memories at this point in development  also is incorrect.
Maturation of the frontal lobes of the brain continues throughout early childhood, and this part of the brain may be critical for remembering particular episodes in ways that can be retrieved later.
Consistent with this view, parents and children increasingly engage in discussions of past events when children are about three years old.
An objective of this particular cruise was to investigate the floor of the Mediterranean and to resolve questions about its geologic history.
Later, under the weight of overlying sediments, this salt flowed plastically upward to form salt domes.
Before this happened, however, the Mediterranean was a vast desert 3,000 meters deep.
Certainly, in trying to explain the Roman phenomenon, one would have to place great emphasis on this almost instinct for the territorial imperative.
From this arose the Roman genius for military organization and orderly government.
Clearly, much planning and central control were involved in the expansion and ordering of this great metropolis.
How did this tremendous development take place, and why did it happen in the Teotihuac  n Valley?
Around this time, the largest of these centers, Cuicuilco, was seriously affected by a volcanic eruption, with much of its agricultural land covered by lava.
All this led to increased wealth, which in turn would attract more immigrants to Teotihuac  n. The growing power of the elite, who controlled the economy, would give them the means to physically coerce people to move to Teotihuac  n and serve as additions to the labor force.
More irrigation works would have to be built to feed the growing population, and this resulted in more power and wealth for the elite.
Critics also point out that the shallow seaways had retreated from and advanced on the continents numerous times during the Mesozoic, so why did the dinosaurs survive the climatic changes associated with the earlier fluctuations but not with this one?
Scientists felt that they could get an idea of how long the extinctions took by determining how long it took to deposit this one centimeter of clay and they thought they could determine the time it took to deposit the clay by determining the amount of the element iridium (Ir) it contained.
A 2003 Mars Global Surveyor image shows what mission specialists think may be a delta  a fan-shaped network of channels and sediments where a river once flowed into a larger body of water, in this case a lake filling a crater in the southern highlands.
The first water craft theory about this migration was that around 11,000-12,000 years ago there was an ice-free corridor stretching from eastern Beringia to the areas of North America south of the great northern glaciers.
It was this midcontinental corridor between two massive ice sheets Cthe Laurentide to the east and the Cordilleran to the west Cthat enabled the southward migration.
But belief in this ice-free corridor began to crumble when paleoecologist Glen MacDonald demonstrated that some of the most important radiocarbon dates used to support the existence of an ice-free corridor were incorrect.
Fladmark  s hypothesis received additional support form from the fact that the greatest diversity in native American languages occurs along the west coast of the Americas, suggesting that this region has been settled the longest. 
Helping this group of teachers to revise their thinking about classroom events became central.
Others have noted this, making a similar point about the teaching profession  s cultural inhibitions about reflective practice.
The seed has an outer coating that surrounds the genetic material of the new plant, and inside this covering is a concentrated supply of nutrients.
Among the key factors behind this growth were increased agricultural productivity and an expansion of trade.
More extended trading networks also helped develop Europe's economy in this period.
In this way, they provided credit.
Without this knowledge we can appreciate only the formal content of Egyptian art, and we will fail to understand why it was produced or the concepts that shaped it and caused it to adopt its distinctive forms.
From a practical aspect this protected the figures against breakage and psychologically gives the images a sense of strength and power, usually enhanced by a supporting back pillar.
To test this idea, he blocked their view of the Sun and used mirrors to change its apparent position.
At the time, this idea seemed preposterous.
If this hypothesis is true, then it follows that nestlings should adjust the intensity of their signals in relation to the signals produced by their nestmates, who are competing for parental attention.
Can one trace this same pattern far back in prehistory?
When a left hand has been stenciled, this implies that the artist was right-handed, and vice versa.
Cave art furnishes other types of evidence of this phenomenon.
Occasionally one can determine whether stone tools were used in the right hand or the left, and it is even possible to assess how far back this feature can be traced.
Yet this most fundamental standard of historical periodization conceals a host of paradoxes.
Occasionally, this may mean working with instead of against competitors.
The disorienting effects of this mismatch between external time cues and internal schedules may persist, like our jet lag, for several days or weeks until certain cues such as the daylight/darkness cycle reset the organism's clock to synchronize with the daily rhythm of the new environment.
Yet despite this synchronization of the period of the internal cycle, the animal's timer itself continues to have its own genetically built-in period close to, but different from, 24 hours.
Young children are trusting of commercial advertisements in the media, and advertisers have sometimes been accused of taking advantage of this trusting outlook.
The emergence and spread of pastoralism had a profound impact on the history of Inner Eurasia, and also, indirectly, on the parts of Asia and Europe just outside this area.
In particular, pastoralism favors a mobile lifestyle, and this mobility helps to explain the impact of pastoralist societies on this part of the world.
All else being equal, this means they must exploit larger areas of land than do agriculturalists to secure the same amount of food, clothing, and other necessities.
This is particularly true of the horse pastoralism that emerged in the Inner Eurasian steppes, for this was the most mobile of all major forms of pastoralism.
Perhaps the most striking sign of mobility is the fact that by the third millennium B.C., most pastoralists in this huge region spoke related languages ancestral to the modern Indo-European languages.
Accomplishing this feat requires adaptations both to generate heat in the turtle  s body and to keep it from escaping into the surrounding waters.
There is not much that the turtle can do about this without compromising the aerodynamic shape of the flipper.
The leatherback accomplishes this by arranging the blood vessels in the base of its flipper into a countercurrent exchange system.
All this applies, of course, only to an adult leatherback.
According to this hypothesis, Earth collided with an asteroid with an estimated diameter of 10 kilometers, or with several asteroids, the combined mass of which was comparable.
The reduced level of photosynthesis led to a massive decline in plant life of all kinds, and this caused massive starvation first of herbivores and subsequently of carnivores.
The mass extinction would have occurred very suddenly under this hypothesis.
Earth  s crust contains very little of this element, but most asteroids contain a lot more.
Debris thrown into the atmosphere by an asteroid collision would presumably contain large amounts of iridium, and atmospheric currents would carry this material all over the globe.
A search of sedimentary deposits that span the boundary between the Cretaceous and Tertiary periods shows that there is a dramatic increase in the abundance of iridium briefly and precisely at this boundary.
An asteroid of this size would be expected to leave an immense crater, even if the asteroid itself was disintegrated by the impact.
In the meantime, however, this ice is not static.
In the multiplicity of small-scale local egalitarian or quasi-egalitarian organizations for fellowship, worship, and production that flourished in this laissez-faire environment, individuals could interact with one another within a community of harmony and ideological equality, following their own popularly elected leaders and governing themselves by shared consensus while minimizing distinctions of wealth and power.
When the elements known at the time were ordered by increasing atomic mass, it was found that successive elements belonged to different chemical groups and that the order of the groups in this sequence was fixed and repeated itself at regular intervals.
In some cases this was true.
Mendeleyev designated this element "eka-aluminum" (eka is the Sanskrit word for "next") and predicted its properties.
Pluto is not included in either category, because its great distance from Earth and its small size make this planet's true nature a mystery.
For Earth, this velocity is 11 kilometers per second.
Any material, including a rocket, must reach this speed before it can leave Earth and go into space.
The chameleon lizard has the most striking ability to do this.
By this means, they signal their level of aggression or readiness to mate.
In this part of the rain forest, therefore, red and orange are the best colors for signaling, and they are the colors used in signals by the ground-walking Australian brush turkey.
Thus, natural selection stabilized this host-parasite relationship.
It is difficult to imagine how this could affect the cattle, but the relationship may help or hinder them in some way not yet recognized.
All had immediate access to the sea, and this had important implications for a significant international resource, fish, as well as for cheap transport, merchant marines, and the shipbuilding industry.
Babies with congenital blockages that prevent this fluid from escaping from their lungs are sometimes born with deformed lungs.
According to this theory, yawning in adults is just a developmental fossil with no biological function.
But, while accepting that not everything in life can be explained by Darwinian evolution, there are sound reasons for being skeptical of theories like this one, which avoid the issue of what yawning does for adults.
Support for this theory came from a study of yawning behavior in everyday life.
Recent measurements made in the field together with laboratory simulations offer a promising explanation of how this structure of charged particles forms.
Below this large, cold, negatively charged region, the cloud is warmer than -15  , and at these temperatures, collisions between ice crystals and falling ice pellets produce positively charged ice pellets that then populate a small region at the base of the cloud. 
Although goods could be requisitioned, they were usually paid for, and this probably stimulated changes in the local economy.
Some of the demand for the services and goods was no doubt fulfilled by people drawn from far afield, but some local people certainly became entwined in this new economy.
Although a small proportion of the total population, this perhaps had a massive local impact when a large proportion of the young men were removed from an area.
The reverse process brought young men to Britain, where many continued to live after their 20 to 25 years of service, and this added to the cosmopolitan Roman character of the frontier population.
The emphasis of this new "community ecology" was on the composition and structure of communities consisting of different species.
Even less fortunate was the extension of this type of thinking to include animals as well as plants.
The areas covered by this material were so vast that the ice that deposited it must have been a continental glacier larger than Greenland or Antarctica.
Along the east coast of the United States, the southernmost advance of this ice is recorded by the enormous sand and drift deposits of the terminal moraines that form Long Island and Cape Cod.
From this analysis of marine sediments, geologists have learned that there were many shorter, more regular cycles of glaciation and deglaciation than geologists had recognized from the glacial drift of the continents alone.
Certain characteristics of American society help to explain this remarkable migration.
Many of those who experienced this sharp break thereafter lacked the ties that had bound them and their ancestors to a single place.
Livestock could be driven across the mountains, but the cost of transporting bulky grains in this fashion was several times greater than their value in eastern markets.
Thanks to new environmental and archaeological discoveries, we now know something about this remarkable change in local life.
Water circulated through heat reservoirs in this temperature range is able to extract enough heat to warm residential, commercial, and industrial spaces.
Experiments are under way to develop technologies for exploiting this resource.
While hunter-gatherers always had the option of moving elsewhere when the resources were exhausted, this became more difficult with farming.
It was argued that once hunter-gatherers had occupied the whole world, the population started to grow everywhere and food became scarce; agriculture would have been a solution to this problem.
Many find that understanding the general nature of autobiographical memory, that is, memory for events that have occurred in one's own life, can provide some important clues to this mystery.
What factors are responsible for this developmental turning point?
According to this line of thought, the verbal abilities that blossom in the two year old allow events to be coded in a form radically different from the action-based codes of the infant.
The realization that the physical self has continuity in time, according to this hypothesis, lays the foundation for the emergence of autobiographical memory.
Spartina has the ability to take up sulfides and convert them to sulfate, a form of sulfur that the plant can use; this ability makes it easier for the grass to colonize marsh environments.
The title Talbot chose for his book, The Pencil of Nature (the first part of which was published in 1844), reflected this feeling.
Even those artists who were most dependent on photography became reluctant to admit that they made use of it, in case this compromised their professional standing.
The first meteorite from this fall was found in the village of Pueblito de Allende.
Since practically all the solar system's mass resides in the Sun, this similarity in chemistry means that chondrites have average solar system composition, except for the most volatile elements; they are truly lumps of nebular matter, probably similar in composition to the matter from which planets were assembled.
Many aspects of this energy use affect the atmosphere of a city, particularly in the production of heat. 
The burning of fuel, such as by cars, is not the only source of this increased heat.
Apart from this, being able to give up labor-intensive grain production freed both the land and the workforce for more productive agricultural divisions.
However, what is astonishing about this is not that Dutch agriculture was affected by critical phenomena such as a decrease in sales and production, but the fact that the crisis appeared only relatively late in Dutch agriculture.
Dutch peasants were able to remain unaffected by this crisis for a long time because they had specialized in dairy farming industrial crops, and horticulture.
The systematic study of this art is a relatively new discipline in Australia.
In order to create a sense of structure to this picture, researchers have relied on a distinction that still underlies the forms of much indigenous visual culture  a distinction between geometric and figurative elements.
While accepting that this sequence fits the archaeological profile of those sites, which were occupied continuously over many thousands of years a number of writers have warned that the underlying assumption of such a sequence  a development from the simple and the geometric to the complex and naturalistic  obscures the cultural continuities in Aboriginal Australia, in which geometric symbolism remains fundamentally important.
In this context the simplicity of a geometric motif may be more apparent than real.
Once all this information has been gathered, it becomes possible to judge whether a lake  s flow is mainly due to its surface inputs and outputs or to its underground inputs and outputs.
The slowing down of water renewal leads to a chain of further consequences; it causes dissolved chemicals to become increasingly concentrated, and this, in turn, has a marked effect on all living things in the lake.
Without this muscular action, inhaling is like sucking air out of a balloon  the narrow passages tend to collapse.
In this case, push explanations dominate.
Some scholars expand on this idea by emphasizing a corresponding need for arable land to feed growing numbers of people: construction of small dams, reservoirs, terraces, and field houses indicates  that  farmers  were  intensifying  their  efforts  during  the  1200s. 
The environmental changes associated with this transition are not fully understood, but people living closest to the San Juan Mountains, to the northeast of Mesa Verde, were affected first.
Scholars believe that this cooperation allowed people to contend with a patchy environment in which precipitation and other resources varied across the landscape: if you produce a lot of food one year, you might trade it for pottery made by a distant ally who is having difficulty with crops  and the next year, the flow of goods might go in the opposite direction.
But all of this appears to have changed thirteenth century.
Age estimates ranging from four billion years for Mars's southern highlands to a few hundred million years in the youngest volcanic areas were obtained in this way.
Geologists think that this fluidized ejecta crater indicates that a layer of permafrost, or water ice, lies just a few meters under the surface.
Even though sailors' wages doubled among the northern Italian cities from 1550 to 1590, this did not elicit an increased supply.
It was this that made the organization of irrigation, particularly the building of canals to channel and preserve the water, essential.
Once this was done and the silt carried down by the rivers was planted, the rewards were rich: four to five times what rain-fed earth would produce.
(The Romans called the shape cuneus and this gives the script its name of cuneiform.)
Texts dealing with economic matters predominated, as they always had done; but at this point works of theology, literature, history, and law also appeared.
In an early fourth-millennium level of the Eanna archaeological site at Uruk, a pottery style appears that is most characteristic of this process, the so-called beveled-rim bowl.
Then in 1963, in the early days of the development of the theory of plate tectonics, Canadian geophysicist Tuzo Wilson realized that this age progression could result if the islands were formed on a surface plate moving over a fixed volcanic source in the interior.
Although this idea was not immediately accepted, the dating of lavas in the Hawaii (and other) chains showed that their ages increase away from the presently active volcano, just as Daly had suggested.
Careful studies have demonstrated, however, that this not the case.
When this occurs, the prey population can rebound.
In this situation the predator and prey populations may continue in this cyclical pattern for some time.
In the intergranular spaces of rocks, however, fluid must flow around and between grains in a tortuous path; this winding path causes a resistance to flow.The rate at which the flowing water overcomes this resistance is related to the permeability of rock.
The widespread distribution of pastoral sites of this period suggests that the Saharans ranged their herds over widely separated summer and winter grazing grounds. 
By this time, the Saharan people were probably using domestic crops, experimenting with such summer rainfall crops as sorghum and millet as they moved out of areas where they could grow wheat, barley, and other Mediterranean crops.
The smooth bark of small red maples makes this species ideal for buck rubs in the forests of the mid-eastern United States. 
However, biologists also noted that deer sniff and lick an unfamiliar rub, which suggests that this visual mark on a small tree plays an important communication purpose in the social life of deer.
In view of this behavior it has been suggested that chemicals present in fresh buck rubs may help physiologically induce and synchronize fertility in females that visit these rubs.
Numerous seeming exceptions to this law have since been found, but they can usually be explained as cases in which the two species, even though competing for a major joint resource, did not really occupy exactly the same niche.
The evolutionary effect of competition on species has been referred to as "species selection;" however, this description is potentially misleading.
However, like many later experts, this one would have suffered from an inability to see into the future.
The power source of this most modern technology was a raditional waterwheel.
Unfortunately this early plant experienced the problem common to many forms of renewable energy: the flow in the Wey River was unreliable, and the waterwheel was soon replaced by a steam engine.
From this primitive start, the electric industry grew during the final 20 years of the nineteenth century at a rate seldom if ever exceeded by any technology.
Another potential cost of this activity is greater exposure to predators since play is attention-getting behavior.
If it seems difficult to conceive how major changes could occur rapidly, consider this: An alteration of a single gene in flies is enough to turn a normal fly with a single pair of wings into one that has two pairs of wings.
All this was compatible with older devices so long as there was only one authoritative timekeeper; but with urban growth and the multiplication of time signals, discrepancy brought discord and strife.
We do not know who invented this machine, or where.
But the mechanical clock kept equal hours, and this implied a new time reckoning.
At this point the subpopulations have evolved into distinct species.
Such conditions prevail throughout much of northern South America and Cuba, but many Central American savannas as well as coastal areas of Brazil and the island of Trinidad do not fit this pattern.
Nearly all the seeds that had germinated from this seed bank were from pioneer species.
Two things made this possible and encouraged it to happen.
While this contest over an unoccupied nest site produced no obvious mortality, fights over occupied nests sometimes kill over 1,000 bees in a single battle. 
The spread of this river valley agriculture in various parts of Asia and Africa was the decisive factor in the rise of the first civilizations.
Commercial agriculture transformed this remarkable treeless environment.
In popular language this was the era   when dinosaurs ruled Earth,   when a wide variety of reptile species occupying many ecological niches.
Paleontologists label this point in Earth  s history as the end of the Cretaceous period and the beginning of the Tertiary period, often abbreviated as the K-T boundary.
The number of flowering plants (angiosperms) was reduced at this time, but they then began to increase dramatically.
They believed that this impact generated a thick cloud of dust that enveloped Earth, shutting out much of the incoming solar radiation and reducing plant photosynthesis to very low levels.
The arts of the Islamic book, such as calligraphy and decorative drawing, developed during A.D. 900 to 1500, and luxury books are some of the most characteristic examples of Islamic art produced in this period.
In western Islamic land, parchment continued to be used for manuscripts of the Koran throughout this period. 
As this early energy crisis grew worse, Britain looked toward its abundant and widely scattered reserves of coal as an alternative to its vanishing wood.
Since the highly active worker ants require a great deal of energy, plants exploit this need by providing extrafloral nectar that supplies ants with abundant energy.
To return this favor, ants guard the nectaries, driving away or killing intruding insects that might compete with ants for nectar.
Similar applications of this concept were to be used again and again in later centuries to estimate the ages of rock formations and, in particular, of layers of sediment that had compacted and cemented to form sedimentary rocks.
Various other techniques to estimate Earth's age fell short, and particularly noteworthy in this regard were flawed determinations of the Sun's age.
What are the factors causing this phenomenon?
While this factor may also contribute, observations suggest that phytoplankton populations rise and fall much more quickly than nutrient concentrations change.
For this reason, a soil scientist can tell a great deal about the attributes of the soil in any given area simply form knowing what kind of flora the soil supports.
During that time Forbes was able to drag this small, triangular dregdge--a tool with a leather net for capturing creatures along the sea bottom--at a hundred locations, at depths ranging from 6 to 1380 feet.
Below that was the final zone in Forbes  s scheme, zone nine, a zone that covered most of the ocean floor and thus most of the solid surface of Earth: Forbes called this the azoic zone, where no animal, to say nothing of plants, could survive. 
The North American equivalent of this story is another moth, the swettaria form of Biston cognataria, first noticed in industrialized areas such as Chicago and New York City in the early 1900s.
To determine whether this was true, Kettlewell released thousands of light and dark moths (each marked with a paint spot) into rural and industrialized areas.
Although he did not accept that water was the prime element, he did believe that all life originated in the sea, and he was thus one of the first to conceive of this important idea.
The number of translocations carried out under the banner of conservation has increased rapidly, and this has led to criticism of the technique because of the lack of evaluation of its efficacy and because of its potential disadvantages.
However, against this is the potential for reinforcement translocations to spread disease from one population to another or to introduce deleterious or maladaptive genes to a population.
Last but not least of these considerations is the effort and resources required in this type of action, which need to be justified by evidence of the likely benefits. 
Careful habitat management increased this number to over 300 birds, but the single population remained vulnerable to local catastrophic events.
The decision was taken to translocate individuals to two nearby islands to reduce this risk.
The development of modern architecture might in large part be seen as an adaptation of this sort of functional building and its pervasive application for daily use.
Indeed, in this influential book Toward a New Architecture, the Swiss architect Le Corbusier illustrated his text with photographs of American factories and grain storage silos, as well as ships, airplanes, and other industrial objects.
This often led to effects that looked odd from a traditional standpoint but that became hallmarks of modern architecture for precisely this reason.
Updated and electrified versions of the freight elevator that had been introduced by Elisha Graves Otis in 1853 (several decades before skyscraper construction) solved this problem.
The period at the end of this sentence is about a million times bigger than an object 0.2 nanometers in diameter, which is the size of a large atom.
but this was about 50 years before raccoons started to spread out from their major habitat, the wooded river bottomlands.
The control of coyotes in the prairie region in the 1950s may have been a factor in raccoon expansion, If their numbers are sufficient coyotes might be able to suppress raccoon populations (though little direct evidence supports this notion).
If the crop plants hybridize and reproduce with weedy relatives, then this herbicide-resistant gene will be perpetuated in the offspring.
In this way, the resistant gene can make its way into the weed population.
If this happens, a farmer can no longer use glyphosate, for example, to kill those weeds.
His goal is not just to survive his ordeals but to make sense of this life.
The Greeks had a special name for this writing: hiero glyphic, literally   sacred writing.
Within this traditional framework the Athenians, between 600 B.C.
It was precisely this opportunity to participate in public life that provided a stimulus for the briar unfolding of classical Greek culture.
The tropics contain a larger surface area of land than higher latitudes  a fact that is not always evident when we examine commonly used projections of Earth's curved surface, since this tends to exaggerate the areas of land in the higher latitudes-and some biogeographers regard the differences in diversity as a reflection of this effect But an analysis of the data by biologist Klaus Rohde does not support this explanation.
There is also a large mass of material, developed below ground as root tissues, but this is less apparent Careful analysis of the aboveground material reveals that it is arranged in a series of layers, the precise number of layers varying with age and the nature of the forest The arrangement of the biological mass (biomass) of the vegetation into layered forms is termed its "structure" (as opposed to its "composition", which refers to the species of organisms forming the community).
The high plant biomass of the tropics leads to a greater spatial complexity in the environment, and this leads to a higher potential for diversity in the living things that can occupy a region.
Hefiothermy is especially common among frogs and toads: it allows them to increase their body temperature by more than 10*C. The Andean toad Bufo spinulosus exposes itself immediately after sunrise on moist ground and attains its preferred body temperature by this means, long before either ground or air is correspondingly warmed.
A positive side effect of this approach is that it accelerates the digestion of the prey consumed overnight, thus also accelerating growth.
Since water vapor is a greenhouse gas, this humid atmosphere-perhaps denser than Earth  s present-day atmosphere, but far less dense than the atmosphere that envelops Venus today  would have efficiently trapped heat from the Sun.
At first, this would have had little effect on the oceans of Venus.
But as the Sun  s energy output slowly increased over time, the temperature at the surface would eventually have risen above 374  C. Above this temperature, no matter what the atmospheric pressure, Venus   oceans would have begun to evaporate, and the added water vapor in the atmosphere would have increased the greenhouse effect.
Eventually, this led to redistribution systems for luxuries and basic commodities, systems that were organized and controlled by Minoan rulers from their palaces.
Many archaeologists and paleobotanists now question this view, pointing out that the available evidence for cultivated vines and olives suggests that they were present only in the later Bronze Age.
In time, this organization became a state, and knowledge of its functioning was exportable, as were pottery, tropical bird feathers, specialized stone materials, and other local commodities.
A mountain range may emerge and gradually split a population of organisms that can inhabit only lowland lakes; certain fish populations might become isolated in this way.
Later, a few individuals of this new species may have been blown by storms to a neighboring island Isolated on this second island, the second founder population could have evolved into a second new species, which could later recolonize the island from which its founding population emigrated.
In fact, several scientists have suggested that the duckbill dinosaurs and horned dinosaurs, with their complex battery of grinding teeth, evolved to exploit this new resource of rapidly growing flowering plants.
Estimated to be ten to fifteen kilometers in diameter, this bolide (either a comet or an asteroid) was traveling at cosmic speeds of 20-70 kilometers per second, or 45,000-156,000 miles per hour.
When the bolide struck, this energy was released and generated a huge shock wave that leveled everything for thousands of kilometers around the impact and caused most of the landscape to burst into flames.
Possibly the small difference in size and internal heating between the two led to this divergence in their evolution.
In the next generation thousands of Greek traders and artisans would enter this wider world to seek their fortunes.
Second, this internationalism spelled the end of the classical Greek city-state    the unit of government in ancient Greece    and everything it stood for.
Most city-states had been quite small in terms of citizenry, and this was considered to be a good thing.
was the first person in Greece to propose a morality based on individual conscience rather than the demands of the state, and for this he was accused of not believing in the city  s gods and so corrupting the youth, and he was condemned to death.
Greek philosophy  or even a focus on conscience  might complement religion but was no substitute for it, and this made Greeks receptive to the religious systems of the Middle East, even if they never adopted them completely The combination of the religious instinct of Asia with the philosophic spirit of Greece spread across the world in the era after Alexander  s death, blending the culture of the Middle East with the culture of Greece.
During this conversion, organic compounds are transformed to oil and natural gas.
In this way, oil becomes segregated from the water; when it encounters a trap, it can form a pool.
Using this approach and considering all the sedimentary basins of the world, experts estimate that somewhere between 1,500 and 3,000 billion barrels of oil will eventually be discovered.
Fishers in this region have known the phenomenon for hundreds of years.
In fact, this is the time of year they traditionally set aside to tend to their equipment and await the return of cold water.
The residents of the region have given this phenomenon the name of El  Nifio  ,which is Spanish for "the child," because it occurs at about the time of the celebration of birth of the Christ child.
He called this seesaw pattern the Southern Oscillation.
Changes in climate during the Devonian may have had something to do with this if freshwater areas became progressively more restricted.
In addition, plants had emerged into terrestrial habitats in areas near streams and ponds, and crabs and other arthropods were also members of this earliest terrestrial community.
For the artist, this technique allows forms and linear perspective to be drawn precisely as they would be seen from a single viewpoint.
One of the artists whose paintings are being analyzed from this point of view is the great Dutch master, Jan Vermeer, who lived from 1632 to 1675 during the flowering of art and science in the Netherlands, including the science of optics.
He includes in this group Caravaggio, Hans Holbein, Leonardo da Vinci, Diego Velazquez, Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres, Agnolo Bronzino, and Jan van Eyck.
However, this is not universal and depends on the currents under which the bed exists.
Although marine botanist W. A. Setchell suggested early on that temperature was critical to the growth and reproduction of eelgrass, it has since been shown that this particularly widespread seagrass grows and reproduces at temperatures between 2 and 4 degrees Celsius in the Arctic and at temperatures up to 28 degrees Celsius on the northeastern coast of the United States.
The recognition that many aspects of the modem flora and fauna were present on both sides of the Bering Sea as remnants of the ice-age landscape led to this region being named Beringia.
On this archaeologists generally agree, but that is where the agreement stops One broad area of disagreement in explaining the peopling of the Americas is the domain of paleoecologists, but it is critical to understanding human history: what was Beringia like?
He makes this argument based on the anatomy of horse and bison, which do not have the ability to search for food through deep snow cover.
Guthrie applied the term    mammoth steppe" to characterize this landscape.
He found that the amount of pollen recovered in these sediments is so low that the Beringian landscape during the peak of the last glaciation was more likely to have been what he termed a "polar desert," with little or only sparse vegetation, in no way was it possible that this region could have supported large herds of mammals and thus, human hunters.
Guthrie has argued against this view by pointing out that radiocarbon analysis of mammoth, horse, and bison bones from Beringian deposits revealed that the bones date to the period of most intense glaciation.
But this vegetation had a thin root mat with no soil formation, demonstrating that there was little long-term stability in plant cover, a finding supporting some of the arguments of Colinvaux.
For the relatively few dominant tree species that make up temperate forests, where there are many individuals of the same species within pollen range, this is quite a safe gamble.
But once this far, significant quantities can go a kilometer or more.
Since all this pollen is floating around in the air, it is no wonder that wind-pollinated trees are a major source of allergies.
One remarkable aspect of this change was that the commercial classes constituted a small part of the total population  never more than 10 percent.
A good illustration of this occurred after sea otters were eliminated from some Pacific kelp (seaweed) bed ecosystems: the kelp beds were practically obliterated too because in the absence of sea otter predation, sea urchin populations exploded and consumed most of the kelp and other macroalgae.
To put this result in more general terms, a species-rich ecosystem may be more stable because it is more likely to have species with a wide array of responses to variable conditions such as droughts.
Clearly, this is a complex issue that requires further field research with a broad spectrum of ecosystems and species: grassland plants and computer models will only take us so far.
In the end, despite insightful attempts to detect some general patterns, we may find it very difficult to reduce this topic to a simple, universal truth.
Although exceptional, this demonstrates how new cultural symbols bound provincials to the identify of the Roman world. 
Local workshops did develop and stylistically similar groups of sculpture show how skills in this new medium became widerspread.
Architecture of this era reflected this with even the largest of the fortified towns and hill forts containing no more than clusters of medium-sized structures.
Renowned Swiss entomologist Martin Luscher described the mounds of this fungus-growing species as being as much as 16 feet tall, 16 feet in diameter at their base, and with a cement-like wall of soil mixed with termite saliva that is from 16 to 23 inches thick.
But how is this well-insulated nest ventilated?
A long time after Darwin put forward this theory, some deep boreholes were drilled in the Pacific atolls in the 1950s.
To explain this sudden increase we cannot point to factors constant in Chinese society but must find conditions or a combination of factors that were newly effective in this period.
Traditionally, this information has been derived from direct evidence, such as stomach contents, and indirect evidence, such as establishing a correlation between particular body characteristics and diets of living animals and then inferring habits for dinosaurs. 
At one time, these were thought to represent embryonic animals, suggesting that this small dinosaur gave birth to live young rather than laying eggs.
In the chest cavity of this specimen, which is housed in the Senckenberg Museum in Germany, are the fossil remains of conifer needles, twigs, seeds, and fruits.
Studies suggest that precipitation may be greater in cities than in the surrounding countryside; this phenomenon may be due in part to the increased roughness of city terrain, brought on by large structures that cause surface air to slow and gradually converge.
Between 200 B.C and A.D 300, this was supplemented by vellum, calf skin treated and then smoothed by pumice stone.
To this in late Roman times was added parchment, similarly made from the smoothed skin of sheep or goats.
Outside Germany, readers found this typeface disagreeable.
The cumulative impact of this industrial spread was spectacular.
