This is because the gaps among the original grains are often not totally plugged with cementing chemicals; also, parts of the original grains may become dissolved by percolating groundwater, either while consolidation is taking place or at any time afterwards.
Thus a proportion of the total volume of any sediment, loose or cemented, consists of empty space.
It is held there by the force of surface tension without which water would drain instantly from any wet surface, leaving it totally dry.
The total volume of water in the saturated sample must therefore be thought of as consisting of water that can, and water that cannot, drain away. 
These flow features are extensive systems  sometimes hundreds of kilometers in total length  of interconnecting, twisting channels that seem to merge into larger, wider channels.
Yet even setting aside the unproven hints of ancient oceans, the extent of the outflow channels suggests that a huge total volume of water existed on Mars in the past.
Glaciers are part of Earth  s hydrologic cycle and are second only to the oceans in the total amount of water contained.
The total amount of ice is even more awesome if we estimate the water released upon the hypothetical melting of the world  s glaciers.
The slightly larger terrestrial planets Earth, Venus, and Mars retain some heavy gases like carbon dioxide, but even their atmospheres make up only an infinitesimally small portion of their total mass.
The total numbers were at least 12,500 men up to the reign of the emperor Hadrian (A.D. 117-138), with a peak around A.D. 80.
Although a small proportion of the total population, this perhaps had a massive local impact when a large proportion of the young men were removed from an area.
This reflexive adjustment is totally absent during NREM sleep.
This pore space is known as porosity and is expressed as a percentage of the total rock volume.
This abundance is notable in Roman settlements (especially urban sites) where the labor that archaeologists have to put into the washing and sorting of potsherds (fragments of pottery) constitutes a high proportion of the total work during the initial phases of excavation.
However, there is one exceptional dump, which does represent a very large part of the site's total history of consumption and for which an estimate of quantity has been produced.
But it may also occur among totally unrelated forms that compete for the same resource, such as seed-eating rodents and ants.
After Hutton, geologists tried to determine rates of sedimentation so as to estimate the age of Earth from the total length of the sedimentary, or stratigraphic, record.
The quantity and total weight of soil flora generally exceed that of soil fauna.
Under exceptionally favorable conditions, up to a million earthworms (with a total body weight exceeding 450 kilograms) may inhabit an acre of soil.
For instance, the Galapagos island chain has a total of thirteen species of closely related birds called Galapagos finches.
One remarkable aspect of this change was that the commercial classes constituted a small part of the total population  never more than 10 percent.
An important environment that is more or less totally restricted to the intertropical zone is the coral reef.
If we accept these totals, we are confronted with a situation in which the Chinese population doubled in the 50 years from 1790 to 1840.
If, with greater caution, we assume lower totals in the early eighteenth century and only 400 million in 1850, we still face a startling fact: something like a doubling of the vast Chinese population in the century before Western contact, foreign trade, and industrialization could have had much effect.
From 1400 to 1900 the total of irrigated land seems to have increased almost three times.
The total number of books on the entire Continent was well under 100,000.
