What audiences came to see was the technological marvel of the movies; the lifelike reproduction of the commonplace motion of trains, of waves striking the shore, and of people walking in the street; and the magic made possible by trick photography and the manipulation of the camera.
Genetic engineering also may provide a partial solution, as new strains of drought-resistant crops continue to be developed.
This process took time and patience and effective trainers.
The researchers estimate that the initial training of the teachers to view events objectively took between 20 and 30 hours, with the same number of hours again being required to practice the skills of reflection. 
Though it may be difficult to imagine from a later perspective, a strain of critical opinion in the 1920s predicted that sound film would be a technical novelty that would soon fade from sight, just as had many previous attempts, dating well back before the First World War, to link images with recorded sound.
Meanwhile, the deadliest strains of the virus perished with their hosts as natural selection favored strains that could infect hosts but not kill them.
One group developed in an   enriched   environment, which allowed the rats to interact with other rats, play with toys, and receive maze training.
The paintings and chants used in the ceremonies are directed by well-trained artists and singers who enlist the aid of spirits who are impersonated by masked performers.
In these circumstances, animals are neither constrained to get the last calorie out of their diet nor is energy conservation a high priority.
In contrast, the food levels in the deeper layers of the ocean are greatly reduced, and the energy constraints on the animals are much more severe To survive at those levels, animals must maximize their energy input, finding and eating whatever potential food source may be present.
These small fishes use their gill filaments to strain out the algae that dominate such areas.
Learning these complex signs required long training and much practice; inevitably, literacy was largely limited to a small professional class, the scribes.
For the scribes of these non-Sumerian languages, training was doubly demanding since they had to know the values of the various cuneiform signs for Sumerian as well as for their own language.
