By far the most abundant type of groundwater is meteoric water; this is the groundwater that circulates as part of the water cycle.
The raising of livestock is a major economic activity in semiarid lands, where grasses are generally the dominant type of natural vegetation.
Today technology has progressed to the point where it is possible to invent new building materials to suit the type of structure desired.
Second, conservation has been insured by limiting times for and types of hunting.
It has been suggested that these figurines were an ideal type or an expression of a desire for fertility. 
But as more and more accumulations of strata were cataloged in more and more places, it became clear that the sequences of rocks sometimes differed from region to region and that no rock type was ever going to become a reliable time marker throughout the world.
The brain  s level of physiological maturation may support these types of memories, but not ones requiring explicit verbal descriptions. 
Two types of flow features are seen: runoff channels and outflow channels.
Now, other forms of life could take hold: ferns and mosses (two of the most ancient types of land plants) that flourish even in rock crevices.
One type of seed-bearing plant, the angiosperm, includes all forms of blooming vegetation.
The ceramics fall into three broad types  earthenware, stoneware, and porcelain  for vessels, architectural items such as roof tiles, and modeled objects and figures.
Long and often lyrical descriptions of the different types of ware exist that assist in classifying pots, although these sometimes confuse an already large and complicated picture.
Cave art furnishes other types of evidence of this phenomenon.
People are bound within relationships by two types of bonds: expressive ties and instrumental ties.
Sociologists have built on the distinction between expressive and instrumental ties to distinguish between two types of groups: primary and secondary.
Archaeological evidence suggests that by 3000 B.C., and perhaps even earlier, there had emerged on the steppes of Inner Eurasia the distinctive types of pastoralism that were to dominate the region's history for several millennia.
The intense heat of the impact would produce heat-shocked quartz in many types of rock.
New types of ships were needed, new methods of finding one's way, new techniques for financing so vast a scheme.
Shortly after 1400, shipbuilders began developing a new type of vessel properly designed to operate in rough, open water: the caravel.
There are three main types of symbiotic relationships: parasitism, commensalism, and mutualism.
Apparently, genotypes (the genetic make-up of an organism) in the rabbit population were selected that were better able to resist the parasite.
The third type of symbiosis, mutualism, benefits both partners in the relationship.
Even less fortunate was the extension of this type of thinking to include animals as well as plants.
Their major point was that the distribution of a given species was controlled by the habitat requirements of that species and that therefore the vegetation types were a simple consequence of the ecologies of individual plant species.
Another type of fossilization, known as carbonization, occurs when soft tissues are preserved as thin films of carbon.
Thus, the types of social experiences children have do factor into the development of autobiographical memories.
His discovery, the "daguerreotype," was announced in 1839.
Talbot's "calotype" was the first negative-to-positive process and the direct ancestor of the modern photograph.
The calotype was revolutionary in its use of chemically treated paper in which areas hit by light became dark in tone, producing a negative image.
The daguerreotype was a unique image that reproduced what was in front of the camera lens in minute, unselective detail and could not be duplicated.
The calotype could be made in series, and was thus the equivalent of an etching or an engraving.
Photography did indeed make certain kinds of painting obsolete  the daguerreotype virtually did away with the portrait miniature.
In addition, other lines of evidence support the hypothesis that land plants evolved from ancestral green algae used the same type of chlorophyll and accessory pigments in photosynthesis as do land plants.
Some plants are woody in type    an adaptation designed to prevent collapse of the plant tissue when water stress produces wilting.
Some type of mass production by specialists was involved here. 
), there first appeared a type of object that remained characteristic for Mesopotamia throughout its entire history: the cylinder seal.
This was a small cylinder, usually no more than 3 centimeters high and 2 centimeters in diameter, of shell, bone, faience ( a glassy type of stoneware), or various types of stones, on which a scene was carved into the surface.
Groundwater is stored in a variety of rock types.
Sedimentary rocks  the most common rock type near the surface  are also the most common reservoirs for water because they contain the most space that can be filled with water.Sandstones generally make good aquifers, while finer-grained mudstones are typically impermeable.
But maps that show the various spots where Roman pottery of a particular type has been found tell only part of the story.
There was much debate on the relative efficiencies of different types of waterwheels.
(They also proved that, in principle, the overshot wheel, a type of wheel in which an overhead stream of water powers the wheel, should win the efficiency competition.)
Occasionally, a sequence of fossil-rich layers of rock permits a comprehensive look at one type of organism over a long period of time.
In addition, results from other types of preschool readiness programs indicate that those who participate and graduate are less likely to repeat grades, and they are more likely to complete school than readiness program, for every dollar spent on the program, taxpayers saved seven dollars by the time the graduates reached the age of 27. 
They occur on a wide range of soil types and in extremes of climate.
Many plants depend on wind for dispersal and produce abundant quantities of small, relatively short-lived seeds to compensate for the fact that wind is not always a reliable means of reaching the appropriate type of habitat.
However, no group or species can maintain its dominance indefinitely, and when, after over 200 million years, the age of dinosaurs came to a dramatic end about 65 million years ago, mammals began to flourish, evolving from relatively few types of small terrestrial animals into the myriad of diverse species, including bats and whales, that we know today.
This time was also marked by changes in many other types of organisms.
Before A.D. 900, manuscripts of the Koran (the book containing the teachings of the Islamic religion) seem to have been the most common type of book produced and decorated, but after that date a wide range of books were produced for a broad spectrum of patrons.
The types of organisms growing or living in the soil greatly influence the soil  s physical and chemical characteristics.
In fact, for mature soils in many parts of the world, the predominant type of natural vegetation is considered the most important direct influence on soil characteristics.
Last but not least of these considerations is the effort and resources required in this type of action, which need to be justified by evidence of the likely benefits. 
The size of a cell often determines the type of microscope a biologist uses to study it. 
Forest fires have recently increased in intensity and extent in some forest types throughout the western United States.
The natural role of fire varies with altitude, tree species, and forest type.
The strength of the Athenian aristocracy was further weakened during the rest of the century by the rise of a type of government known as a tyranny, which is a form of interim rule by a popular strongman (not rule by a ruthless dictator as the modem use of the term suggests to us).
Some illness is itself regarded as a type of disharmony.
These birds have many similarities but differ in their feeding habits and their beak type, which is correlated with what they eat.
Knowing how much oil has been found in an intensively drilled area, such as eastern Texas, experts make estimates of probable volumes in other regions where rock types and structures are similar to those in eastern Texas.
The batches, some of which contain thousands of tablets, consist for the most part of documents of the types just mentioned: bills, deliveries, receipts, inventories, loans, marriage contracts, divorce settlements, court judgments, and so on.
The individual traveling merchant who alone handled virtually all aspects of exchange evolved into an operation invoh/ing three separate types of merchants: the sedentary merchant who ran the "home office," financing and organizing the firm  s entire export-import trade; the carriers who transported goods by land and sea; and the company agents resident in cities abroad who, on the advice of the home office, looked after sales and procurements.
Cultural influences were of three types: the bringing of objects, the transfer of craft workers, and the introduction of massive civil architecture.
Darwin s theory was that the succession from one coral reef type to another could be achieved by the upward growth of coral from a sinking platform, and that there would be a progression from a fringing reef, through the barrier reef stage until, with the disappearance through subsidence (sinking) of the central island, only a reef-enclosed lagoon or atoll would survive.
Study of coprolites has indicated that the diets of some herbivorous dinosaurs were relatively diverse, while other dinosaurs appear to have been specialists, feeding on particular types of plants.
Nothing divided the medieval world in Europe decisively from the Early Modern period than printing with movable type.
Printing from wooden blocks was the old method; what the Germans did was to invent movable type for the letterpress.
The old monastic scriptoria-monastery workshops where monks copied texts by hand-worked closely alongside the new presses, continuing to produce the luxury goods that movable-type printing could not yet supply.
German printers had the disadvantage of working with the complex typeface that the Italians sneeringly referred to as "Gothic" and that later became known as black letter.
Outside Germany, readers found this typeface disagreeable.
The Italians, on the other hand, had a clear typeface known as roman that became the type of the future.
Hence, although the Germans made use of the paper revolution to introduce movable type, the Italians went far to regain the initiative by their artistry.
