In lowland country almost any spot on the ground may overlie what was once the bed of a river that has since become buried by soil; if they are now below the water  s upper surface (the water table), the gravels and sands of the former riverbed, and its sandbars, will be saturated with groundwater. 
During the early stages of its development, a society becomes aware of forces that appear to influence or control its food supply and well-being.
Having little understanding of natural causes, it attributes both desirable and undesirable occurrences to supernatural or magical forces, and it searches for means to win the favor of these forces.
Perceiving an apparent connection between certain actions performed by the group and the result it desires, the group repeats, refines and formalizes those actions into fixed ceremonies, or rituals.
Stories (myths) may then grow up around a ritual.
Frequently the myths include representatives of those supernatural forces that the rites celebrate or hope to influence.
Performers may wear costumes and masks to represent the mythical characters or supernatural forces in the rituals or in accompanying celebrations.
As a person becomes more sophisticated, its conceptions of supernatural forces and causal relationships may change.
But the myths that have grown up around the rites may continue as part of the group  s oral tradition and may even come to be acted out under conditions divorced from these rites.
For example, one sign of this condition is the appearance of the comic vision, since comedy requires sufficient detachment to view some deviations from social norms as ridiculous rather than as serious threats to the welfare of the entire group.
For example, some early societies ceased to consider certain rites essential to their well-being and abandoned them, nevertheless, they retained as parts of their oral tradition the myths that had grown up around the rites and admired them for their artistic qualities rather than for their religious usefulness. 
This rapid zone of transition is called the upper timberline or tree line.
The upper timberline, like the snow line, is highest in the tropics and lowest in the Polar Regions.
Timberline trees are normally evergreens, suggesting that these have some advantage over deciduous trees (those that lose their leaves) in the extreme environments of the upper timberline.
At the upper timberline the trees begin to become twisted and deformed.
This is particularly true for trees in the middle and upper latitudes, which tend to attain greater heights on ridges, whereas in the tropics the trees reach their greater heights in the valleys.
This is because middle- and upper- latitude timberlines are strongly influenced by the duration and depth of the snow cover.
There is still no universally agreed-on explanation for why there should be such a dramatic cessation of tree growth at the upper timberline.
Immediately adjacent to the timberline, the tundra consists of a fairly complete cover of low-lying shrubs, herbs, and grasses, while higher up the number and diversity of species decrease until there is much bare ground with occasional mosses and lichens and some prostrate cushion plants.
The fossil consists of a complete skull of an archaeocyte, an extinct group of ancestors of modern cetaceans.
Other features, however, show experts that Pakicetus is a transitional form between a group of extinct flesh-eating mammals, the mesonychids, and cetaceans.
Such legs would have been far too small to have supported the 50-foot-long Basilosaurus on land.
The structure of the backbone shows, however, that Ambulocetus swam like modern whales by moving the rear portion of its body up and down, even though a fluke was missing.
The deserts, which already occupy approximately a fourth of the Earth's land surface, have in recent decades been increasing at an alarming pace.
In order for the structure to achieve the size and strength necessary to meet its purpose, architecture employs methods of support that, because they are based on physical laws, have changed little since people first discovered them  even while building materials have changed dramatically.
Modern architectural forms generally have three separate components comparable to elements of the human body: a supporting skeleton or frame, an outer skin enclosing the interior spaces, and equipment, similar to the body  s vital organs and systems.
In the past, whole cities grew from the arduous task of cutting and piling stone upon.
The doorways and windows are made possible by placing over the open spaces thick stone beams that support the weight from above.
As a method of spanning space, the arch can support greater weight than a horizontal beam.
This region has a semiarid climate, and for 50 years after its settlement, it supported a low-intensity agricultural economy of cattle ranching and wheat farming.
Ogallala water has enabled the High Plains region to supply significant amounts of the cotton, sorghum, wheat, and corn grown in the United States.
This unprecedented development of a finite groundwater resource with an almost negligible natural recharge rate  that is, virtually no natural water source to replenish the water supply  has caused water tables in the region to fall drastically.
It is projected that the remaining Ogallala water will, by the year 2030, support only 35 to 40 percent of the irrigated acreage in Texas that is supported in 1980.
The incentive of the farmers who wish to conserve water is reduced by their knowledge that many of their neighbors are profiting by using great amounts of water, and in the process are drawing down the entire region  s water supplies.
In the face of the upcoming water supply crisis, a number of grandiose schemes have been developed to transport vast quantities of water by canal or pipeline from the Mississippi, the Missouri, or the Arkansas rivers. 
Support for this idea came from the observation that long-lasting climax communities usually have more complex food webs and more species diversity than pioneer communities.
Many ecologists now think that the relative long-term stability of climax communities comes not from diversity but from the   patchiness   of the environment, an environment that varies from place to place supports more kinds of organisms than an environment that is uniform.
Perhaps the paintings were inspired by the need to increase the supply of animals.
The organic matter may partially decompose, using up the dissolved oxygen in the sediment.
Both oil and gas are less dense than water, so they generally tend to rise upward through water-saturated rock and sediment. 
Now portable drilling machines are set up and are then dismantled and removed.
When the well reaches a pool, oil usually rises up the well because of its density difference with water beneath it or because of the pressure of expanding gas trapped above it.
Some soils are notoriously deficient in micro nutrients and are therefore unable to support most plant life.
In modern agriculture, mineral depletion of soils is a major concern, since harvesting crops interrupts the recycling of nutrients back to the soil.
Only recently have investigators considered using these plants to clean up soil and waste sites that have been contaminated by toxic levels of heavy metals Can environmentally friendly approach known as phytoremediation.
It is now generally believed that these prerequisites originated with peoples speaking Austronesian languages (a group of several hundred related languages) and began to emerge in Southeast Asia by about 5000 B.C.E.
The undisputed pre-Columbian presence in Oceania of the sweet potato, which is a New World domesticate, has sometimes been used to support Heyerdahl  s   American Indians in the Pacific   theories.
During a geologically brief 100-million-year period, all modern animal groups (along with other animals that are now extinct) evolved.
It contains no ancestors of modern animal groups.
At one time, the animals present in these fossil beds were assigned to various modern animal groups, but most paleontologists now agree that all Tommotian fossils represent unique body forms that arose in the early Cambrian period and disappeared before the end of the period, leaving no descendants in modern animal groups.
These fossil beds provide evidence of about 32 modern animal groups, plus about 20 other animal body forms that are so different from any modern animals that they cannot be assigned to any one of the modern groups.
The Burgess Shale formation also has fossils of many extinct representatives of modern animal groups.
For example, a well-known Burgess Shale animal called Sidneyia is a representative of a previously unknown group of arthropods (a category of animals that includes insects, spiders, mites, and crabs).
Iron manufacturers, which had starved for fuel while depending on charcoal, also benefited from ever-increasing supplies of coal: blast furnaces with steam-powered bellows turned out more iron and steel for the new machinery.
Boats could carry heavy weights, but canals could not cross hilly terrain; turnpikes could cross the hills, but the roadbeds could not stand up under great weights.
The brain  s level of physiological maturation may support these types of memories, but not ones requiring explicit verbal descriptions. 
This view is supported by a variety of factors that can create mismatches between very young children's encoding and older children's and adults' retrieval efforts.
These three explanations of infantile amnesia are not mutually exclusive; indeed, they support each other.
One question was related to evidence that the invertebrate fauna (animals without spines) of the Mediterranean had changed abruptly about 6 million years ago.
Later, under the weight of overlying sediments, this salt flowed plastically upward to form salt domes.
Turbulent waters tore into the hardened salt flats, broke them up, and ground them into the pebbles observed in the first sample taken by the Challenger.
The drying up of what is now the Sahara desert had pushed many peoples to the south into sub-Sahara Africa.
These peoples settled at first in scattered hunting-and-gathering bands, although in some places near lakes and rivers, people who fished, with a more secure food supply, lived in larger population concentrations.
Their migration may have been set in motion by an increase in population caused by a movement of peoples fleeing the desiccation, or drying up, of the Sahara.
The exact role of other factors is much more difficult to pinpoint Dfor instance, Teotihuac  n  s religious significance as a shrine, the historical situation in and around the Valley of Mexico toward the end of the first millennium B.C., the ingenuity and foresightedness of Teotihuac  n  s elite, and, finally, the impact of natural disasters, such as the volcanic eruptions of the late first millennium B.C.
Around this time, the largest of these centers, Cuicuilco, was seriously affected by a volcanic eruption, with much of its agricultural land covered by lava.
Many plants and animals disappear abruptly from the fossil record as one moves from layers of rock documenting the end of the Cretaceous up into rocks representing the beginning of the Cenozoic (the era after the Mesozoic).
Their calculations show that the impact kicked up a dust cloud that cut off sunlight for several months, inhibiting photosynthesis in plants; decreased surface temperatures on continents to below freezing; caused extreme episodes of acid rain; and significantly raised long-term global temperatures through the greenhouse effect.
This disruption of food chain and climate would have eradicated the dinosaurs and other organisms in less than fifty years.
They bear a strong resemblance to river systems on Earth, and geologists think that they are dried-up beds of long-gone rivers that once carried rainfall on Mars from the mountains down into the valleys.
Their absence supports the picture of a cold, dry Mars that never experienced the extended mild period required to form lakes and oceans.
But belief in this ice-free corridor began to crumble when paleoecologist Glen MacDonald demonstrated that some of the most important radiocarbon dates used to support the existence of an ice-free corridor were incorrect.
Support is growing for the alternative theory that people using watercraft, possibly skin boats, moved southward from Beringia along the Gulf of Alaska and then southward along the Northwest coast of North America possibly as early as 16,000 years ago.
Fladmark  s hypothesis received additional support form from the fact that the greatest diversity in native American languages occurs along the west coast of the Americas, suggesting that this region has been settled the longest. 
The coastal hypothesis has gained increasing support in recent years because the remains of large land animals, such as caribou and brown bears, have been found in southeastern Alaska dating between 10,000 and 12,500 years ago.
It has been suggested that if the environment were capable of supporting breeding populations of bears, there would have been enough food resources to support humans.
They designed an experimental strategy for a group of teachers in Virginia and worked with 40 practicing teachers over several years.
The teachers were taken through a program of talking about teaching events, moving on to reflecting about specific issues in a supported, and later an independent, manner. 
Helping this group of teachers to revise their thinking about classroom events became central.
The first is support from administrators in an education system, enabling teachers to understand the requirements of reflective practice and how it relates to teaching students.
The third is the development of a collaborative environment with support from other teachers.
Support and encouragement were also required to help teachers in the program cope with aspects of their professional life with which they were not comfortable.
A few of these spores found a toehold on the dark, forbidding rocks and grew and began to work their transformation upon the land.
It is significant that the earliest living things that built communities on these islands are examples of symbiosis, a phenomenon that depends upon the close cooperation of two or more forms of life and a principle that is very important in island communities. 
Lichens helped to speed the decomposition of the hard rock surfaces, preparing a soft bed of soil that was abundantly supplied with minerals that had been carried in the molten rock from the bowels of Earth.
These plants propagate by producing spores Ctiny fertilized cells that contain all the instructions for making a new plant Cbut the spore are unprotected by any outer coating and carry no supply of nutrient.
The seed has an outer coating that surrounds the genetic material of the new plant, and inside this covering is a concentrated supply of nutrients.
Plants with large, buoyant seeds  like coconuts  drift on ocean currents and are washed up on the shores.
Nourished by their imported supply of nutrients, the young plants push out their roots and establish their place in the sun. 
In addition, there was an important group of sculptures made for religious use, the majority of which were produced in earthenware.
To build up a better picture of fluctuations appreciably further back in time requires us to use proxy records.
Members of poor peasant families spun or wove cloth and linens at home for scant remuneration in an attempt to supplement meager family income.
Moreover an increased credit supply was generated by investments and loans by bankers and wealthy merchants to states and by joint-stock partnerships  an English innovation (the first major company began in 1600).
Frontality is, however, directly related to the functions of Egyptian statuary and the contexts in which the statues were set up.
From a practical aspect this protected the figures against breakage and psychologically gives the images a sense of strength and power, usually enhanced by a supporting back pillar.
Apart from statues representing deities, kings, and named members of the elite that can be called formal, there is another group of three-dimensional representations that depicts generic figures, frequently servants, from the nonelite population.
He then set up experiments with caged starlings and found that their orientation was, in fact, in the proper migratory direction except when the sky was overcast, at which times there was no clear direction to their restless movements.
Furthermore, one sensory ability may back up another.
This prediction was supported by data collected in one survey of 24 species from an Arizona forest, more evidence that predator pressure favors the evolution of begging calls that are hard to detect and pinpoint.
One also has to make the assumption that hands were stenciled palm downward  a left hand stenciled palm upward might of course look as if it were a right hand.
Right-handers tend to have longer, stronger, and more muscular bones on the right side, and Marcellin Boule as long ago as 1911 noted the La Chapelle-aux-Saints Neanderthal skeleton had a right upper arm bone that was noticeably stronger than the left.
The high costs of converting to sound and the early limitations of sound technology were among the factors that suppressed innovations or retarded advancement in these other areas.
The impact of rainfall upon the surface water and groundwater resources of the desert is greatly influenced by landforms.
Flats and depressions where water can collect are common features, but they make up only a small part of the landscape.
For centuries, the annual floods of the Nile, Tigris, and Euphrates, for example, have brought fertile silts and water to the inhabitants of their lower valleys.
The filling of the Ataturk and other dams in Turkey has drastically reduced flows in the Euphrates, with potentially serious consequences for Syria and Iraq.
Basaltic rocks also support springs, notably at the Jabal Al-Arab on the Jordan-Syria border.
Sociologists have built on the distinction between expressive and instrumental ties to distinguish between two types of groups: primary and secondary.
A primary group involves two or more people who enjoy a direct, intimate, cohesive relationship with one another.
Expressive ties predominate in primary groups; we view the people as ends in themselves and valuable in their own right.
A secondary group entails two or more people who are involved in an impersonal relationship and have come together for a specific, practical purpose.
Instrumental ties predominate in secondary groups; we perceive people as means to ends rather than as ends in their own right.
Sometimes primary group relationships evolve out of secondary group relationships.
A number of conditions enhance the likelihood that primary groups will arise.
First, group size is important.
We find it difficult to get to know people personally when they are milling about and dispersed in large groups.
In small groups we have a better chance to initiate contact and establish rapport with them.
Second, face-to-face contact allows us to size up others.
And third, the probability that we will develop primary group bonds increases as we have frequent and continuous contact.
Primary groups are fundamental to us and to society.
First, primary groups are critical to the socialization process.
Such groups are the breeding grounds in which we acquire the norms and values that equip us for social life.
Sociologists view primary groups as bridges between individuals and the larger society because they transmit, mediate, and interpret a society's cultural patterns and provide the sense of oneness so critical for social solidarity.
Second, primary groups are fundamental because they provide the settings in which we meet most of our personal needs.
Not surprisingly, sociologists find that the strength of a group's primary ties has implications for the group's functioning.
For example, the stronger the primary group ties of a sports team playing together, the better their record is.
Third, primary groups are fundamental because they serve as powerful instruments for social control.
Should the use of rewards fail, members can frequently win by rejecting or threatening to ostracize those who deviate from the primary group's norms.
For instance, some social groups employ shunning (a person can remain in the community, but others are forbidden to interact with the person) as a device to bring into line individuals whose behavior goes beyond that allowed by the particular group.
Even more important, primary groups define social reality for us by structuring our experiences.
By providing us with definitions of situations, they elicit from our behavior that conforms to group-devised meanings.
Primary groups, then, serve both as carriers of social norms and as enforcers of them.
Consumer protection groups and parents believe that children are largely ill-equipped to recognize such techniques and that often exaggeration is used at the expense of product information.
From north to south in the Yucatan Peninsula, where the Maya lived, rainfall ranges from 18 to 100 inches (457 to 2,540 millimeters) per year, and the soils become thicker, so that the southern peninsula was agriculturally more productive and supported denser populations.
In low-elevation north coastal areas without sinkholes, the Maya would have been able to get down to the water table by digging wells up to 75 feet (22 meters) deep.
It initially surprises us that many of their cities were not built next to the rivers but instead on high terrain in rolling uplands.
The explanation is that the Maya excavated depressions, or modified natural depressions, and then plugged up leaks in the karst by plastering the bottoms of the depressions in order to create reservoirs, which collected rain from large plastered catchment basins and stored it for use in the dry season.
At the city of Coba the Maya built dikes around a lake in order to raise its level and make their water supply more reliable.
A shorter drought in which they exhausted their stored food supplies might already have gotten them in deep trouble, because growing crops required rain rather than reservoirs.
As a result, pastoralists, like carnivores in general, occupy a higher position on the food chain.
However, the larger the terrain used to support a group, the harder it is to exploit that terrain while remaining in one place.
It means that pastoralist societies occupy and can influence very large territories.
Anatolia, but among the foraging communities of the cultures in the region of the Don and Dnieper rivers, which took up stock breeding and began to exploit the neighboring steppes.
A leatherback may be able to pick up some body heat by basking at the surface; its dark, almost black body color may help it to absorb solar radiation.
It is not enough for whales, which supplement it with a thick layer of insulating blubber (fat).
In a countercurrent exchange system, the blood vessels carrying cooled blood from the flippers run close enough to the blood vessels carrying warm blood from the body to pick up some heat from the warmer blood vessels; thus, the heat is transferred from the outgoing to the ingoing vessels before it reaches the flipper itself.
American paleontologists David Raup and John Sepkoski, who have studied extinction rates in a number of fossil groups, suggest that episodes of increased extinction have recurred periodically, approximately every 26 million years since the mid-Cretaceous period.
The possibility that mass extinctions may recur periodically has given rise to such hypotheses as that of a companion star with a long-period orbit deflecting other bodies from their normal orbits, making some of them fall to Earth as meteors and causing widespread devastation upon impact.
This iridium anomaly offers strong support for the Alvarez hypothesis even though no asteroid itself has ever been recovered.
Two percent may be a deceiving figure, however, since over 80 percent of the world  s freshwater is locked up as ice in glaciers, with the majority of it in Antarctica.
The total amount of ice is even more awesome if we estimate the water released upon the hypothetical melting of the world  s glaciers.
Records show merchant caravans and trading posts set up by the Sumerians in the surrounding mountains and deserts of Persia and Arabia, where they traded grain for raw materials, such as timber and stones, as well as for metals and gems.
Nor have merchants and artisans ever had much tolerance for aristocratic professions of moral superiority, favoring instead an egalitarian ethic of the open market, where steady hard work, the loyalty of one's fellows, and entrepreneurial skill make all the difference.
And, like the pastoralists, Middle Eastern merchants and artisans unhappy with their environment could simply pack up and leave for greener pastures  an act of self-assertion wholly impossible in most other civilizations throughout history.
The central state, though often very rich and very populous, was intrinsically fragile, since the development of new international trade routes could undermine the monetary base and erode state power, as occurred when European seafarers circumvented Middle Eastern merchants after Vasco da Gama's voyage around Africa in the late fifteenth century opened up a southern route.
Various proposals were put forth to arrange the elements into groups based on similarities in chemical and physical properties.
The next step was to recognize a connection between group properties (physical or chemical similarities) and atomic mass (the measured mass of an individual atom of an element).
When the elements known at the time were ordered by increasing atomic mass, it was found that successive elements belonged to different chemical groups and that the order of the groups in this sequence was fixed and repeated itself at regular intervals.
Thus when the series of elements was written so as to begin a new horizontal row with each alkali metal, elements of the same groups were automatically assembled in vertical columns in a periodic table of the elements.
The close correspondence between the observed properties of gallium and Mendeleyev  s predictions for eka-aluminum lent strong support to the periodic law.
Additional support came in 1885 when eka-silicon, which had also been described in advance by Mendeleyev, was discovered and named germanium.
Rayleigh and Ramsay postulated the existence of a new group of elements, and in 1898 other members of the series (neon, krypton, and xenon) were isolated.
An estimated 99.85 percent of the mass of our solar system is contained within the Sun, while the planets collectively make up most of the remaining 0.15 percent.
The planets, in order of their distance from the Sun, are Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto.
The planets in our solar system fall into two groups: the terrestrial (Earth-like) planets (Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars) and the Jovian (Jupiter-like) planets (Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune).
Other dimensions along which the two groups differ markedly are density and composition.
The substances that make up both groups of planets are divided into three groups  gases, rocks, and ices  based on their melting points.
The slightly larger terrestrial planets Earth, Venus, and Mars retain some heavy gases like carbon dioxide, but even their atmospheres make up only an infinitesimally small portion of their total mass.
It is hypothesized that the primordial cloud of dust and gas from which all the planets are thought to have condensed had a composition somewhat similar to that of Jupiter.
However, unlike Jupiter, the terrestrial planets today are nearly void of light gases and ices.
Apparently, genotypes (the genetic make-up of an organism) in the rabbit population were selected that were better able to resist the parasite.
They were reasonably well governed, without notable corruption or grandiose state projects, although in all of them the government gave some aid to railways, and in Sweden the state built the main lines.
About the closest any research has come to supporting the tiredness theory is to confirm that adults yawn more often on weekdays than at weekends, and that school children yawn more frequently in their first year at primary school than they do in kindergarten.
If the theory was correct, breathing air with extra carbon dioxide should have triggered yawning, while breathing pure oxygen should have suppressed yawning.
It has been suggested that yawning and hiccupping might serve to clear out the fetuses airways.
Support for this theory came from a study of yawning behavior in everyday life.
Volunteers wore wrist-mounted devices that automatically recorded their physical activity for up to two weeks: the volunteers also recorded their yawns by pressing a button on the device each time they yawned.
What happens is that small (millimeter-to centimeter-size) pellets of ice form in the cold upper regions of the cloud.
Then updraft wind currents carry the light, positively charged ice crystals up to the top of the cloud.
When a stream of these negatively charged electrons comes within 100 meters of the ground it is met by a stream of positively charged particles that comes up from the ground.
Sometimes, however, a stream of electrons following an established channel is met by a positive stream making a new path up from the ground.
This then meant that the military had to remain to suppress rebellion and organize government.
Its large population needed food and other supplies.
When not campaigning, soldiers needed to be occupied; otherwise they represented a potentially dangerous source of friction and disloyalty.
There was informal marriage with soldiers, who until AD 197 were not legally entitled to wed, and whole new communities grew up near the forts.
The total numbers were at least 12,500 men up to the reign of the emperor Hadrian (A.D. 117-138), with a peak around A.D. 80.
By the later Roman period, frontier garrisons (groups of soldiers) were only rarely transferred, service in units became effectively hereditary, and forts were no longer populated or maintained at full strength.
It also explains why some of the forts continued in occupation long after Rome ceased to have any formal authority in Britain, at the beginning of the fifth century A.D.
In the early twentieth century, the American ecologist Frederic Clements pointed out that a succession of plant communities would develop after a disturbance such as a volcanic eruption, heavy flood, or forest fire.
For Clements, the climax was a "superorganism," an organic entity.
Even some authors who accepted the climax concept rejected Clements' characterization of it as a superorganism, and it is indeed a misleading metaphor.
An ant colony may be legitimately called a superorganism because its communication system is so highly organized that the colony always works as a whole and appropriately according to the circumstances.
With "climax," "biome," "superorganism," and various other technical terms for the association of animals and plants at a given locality being criticized, the term "ecosystem" was more and more widely adopted for the whole system of associated organisms together with the physical factors of their environment.
"Old America seemed to be breaking up and moving westward," observed an English visitor in 1817, during the first great wave of migration.
The European ancestors of some Americans had for centuries lived rooted to the same village or piece of land until some religious, political, or economic crisis uprooted them and drove them across the Atlantic.
Moreover, European society was relatively stratified; occupation and social status were inherited.
In American society, however, the class structure was less rigid; some people changed occupations easily and believed it was their duty to improve their social and economic position.
First came the steamboat; although flatboats and keelboats continued to be important until the 1850  s steamboats eventually superseded all other craft in the carrying of passengers and freight.
Steamboats were not only faster but also transported upriver freight for about one tenth of what it had previously cost on hand-propelled keelboats.
At the end of the Ice Age, no more than a few thousand foragers lived along the eastern Mediterranean coast, in the Jordan and Euphrates valleys.
Many areas were richer in animal and plant species than they are now, making them highly favorable for human occupation.
Some local areas, like the Jordan River valley, the middle Euphrates valley, and some Zagros valleys, were more densely populated than elsewhere.
Thanks to extremely fine-grained excavation and extensive use of flotation methods (through which seeds are recovered from soil samples), we know a great deal about the foraging practices of the inhabitants of Abu Hureyra in Syria's Euphrates valley.
Abu Hureyra was founded about 9500B.C, a small village settlement of cramped pit dwellings (houses dug partially in the soil) with reed roofs supported by wooden uprights.
They were no longer a series of small bands but lived in a large community with more elaborate social organization, probably grouped into clans of people of common descent.
However, as the climate dried up, the forests retreated from the vicinity of the settlement.
Then, about 7000 B.C., within the space of a few generations, they switched abruptly to herding domesticated goats and sheep and to growing einkorn, pulses, and other cereal grasses.
Water containing dissolved silica, calcium carbonate, or iron may circulate through the enclosing sediment and be deposited in cavities such as marrow cavities and canals in bone once occupied by blood vessels and nerves.
The shale was deposited in an oxygen-deficient lake where lethal gases sometimes bubbled up and killed animals.
Among the superbly preserved Messel fossils are insects with iridescent exoskeletons (hard outer coverings), frogs with skin and blood vessels intact, and even entire small mammals with preserved fur and soft tissue.
The world's largest supply of natural steam occurs at The Geysers, 120 kilometers north of San Francisco, California.
By the late 1990s some 70 geothermal electric-generating plants were in operation in California, Utah, Nevada, and Hawaii, generating enough power to supply about a million people.
It was argued that once hunter-gatherers had occupied the whole world, the population started to grow everywhere and food became scarce; agriculture would have been a solution to this problem.
Numerous insects occupy the marsh, feeding on living or dead cordgrass tissue, and redwing blackbirds, sparrows, rodents, rabbits, and deer feed directly on the cordgrass.
Spartina has the ability to take up sulfides and convert them to sulfate, a form of sulfur that the plant can use; this ability makes it easier for the grass to colonize marsh environments.
The daguerreotype was a unique image that reproduced what was in front of the camera lens in minute, unselective detail and could not be duplicated.
With much of the built-up landscape impenetrable by water, even gentle rain runs off almost immediately from rooftops, streets, and parking lots.
The cause appears to be in part greater turbulence in the urban atmosphere as hot air rises from the built-up surface.
Apart from this, being able to give up labor-intensive grain production freed both the land and the workforce for more productive agricultural divisions.
In order to increase production on existing land, the peasants made more use of crop rotation and, in particular, began to apply animal waste to the soil regularly, rather than leaving the fertilization process up to the grazing livestock.
While accepting that this sequence fits the archaeological profile of those sites, which were occupied continuously over many thousands of years a number of writers have warned that the underlying assumption of such a sequence  a development from the simple and the geometric to the complex and naturalistic  obscures the cultural continuities in Aboriginal Australia, in which geometric symbolism remains fundamentally important.
Conversely, a pond with a stream flowing in one end and out the other, which dries up when the stream dries up, is clearly surface water dominated.
They range from a few days for small lakes up to several hundred years for large ones; Lake Tahoe, in California, has a residence time of 700 years.
The residence times for the Great Lakes of North America, namely, Lakes Superior, Michigan, Huron, Erie, and Ontario, are, respectively, 190,100,22,2.5, and 6 years.
In the period 1970 to 1986, rainfall in the area decreased from 1,000 millimeters to 650 millimeters per annum, while above-average temperatures speeded up the evapotranspiration rate (the rate at which water is lost to the atmosphere through evaporation and the processes of plant life).
Some of the muscles that help keep the upper airway open when breathing tend to become more relaxed during sleep, especially during REM (the phase of sleep in which there is rapid eye movement).
Coupled with these factors is the loss of the complex interactions among the muscles that can change the route of airflow from nose to mouth.
As lava flows and spreads to form a shield volcano, the volcano's eventual height depends on the new mountain's ability to support its own weight.
Scientists have no direct evidence for recent or ongoing eruptions, but if these volcanoes were active as recently as 100 million, years ago (an estimate of the time of last "eruption based on the extent of impact cratering on their slopes), some of them may still be at least intermittently active.
Millions of years, though, may pass between eruptions.
Even though sailors' wages doubled among the northern Italian cities from 1550 to 1590, this did not elicit an increased supply.
Of today's different groups of algae, green algae are probably the most similar to ancestral plants.
This supposition stems from the close phylogenetic (natural evolutionary) relationship between the two groups.
In addition, other lines of evidence support the hypothesis that land plants evolved from ancestral green algae used the same type of chlorophyll and accessory pigments in photosynthesis as do land plants.
Water temperature can fluctuate seasonally or even daily and changing level of rainfall can lead to fluctuations in the concentration of chemical in the water or even to period in which the aquatic habitat dries up.
On land, the supportive buoyancy of water is missing, the plant is no longer bathed in a nutrient solution, and air tends to dry things out.
These conditions favored the evolution of the structures that support the body, vessels that transport water and nutrients to all parts of plant, and structures that conserve water.
These include conducting vessels that transport water and minerals upward from the roots and that move the photosynthetic products from the leaves to the rest of the plant body and the stiffening substance lignin, which support the plant body, helping it expose maximum surface area to sunlight.
So the most successful groups of land plants are those that evolved methods of fertilized sex cell dispersal that are independent of water and structures that protest developing embryos from drying out.
Wood, the primary source of heat for homes and industries and also used in the iron industry as processed charcoal, was diminishing in supply.
Charcoal, made from wood and thus in limited supply, was replaced with coal-derived coke (substance left after coal is heated) as steam-driven bellows came into use for producing of raw iron.
They possess drought-resisting adaptations: loss of water through the leaves is reduced by means of dense hairs covering waxy leaf surfaces, by the closure of pores during the hottest times to reduce water loss, and by the rolling up or shedding of leaves at the beginning of the dry season.
These have adapted to the environment by the development of long taproots that penetrate downward until they approach the assured water supply provided by groundwater.
The earliest of the city states of the ancient Near East appeared at the southern end of the Mesopotamian plain, the area between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers in what is now Iraq.
In the second half of that millennium, in the south around the city of Uruk, there was an enormous escalation in the area occupied by permanent settlements.
While population estimates are notoriously unreliable, scholars assume that Uruk inhabitants were able to support themselves from the agricultural production of the field surrounding the city, which could be reached with a daily commute.
Certain images depict groups of people, most likely women, involved in weaving textiles, an activity we know from later third-millennium texts to have been vital in the economy and to have been centrally administered.
This has been interpreted as the remains of a workshop where molten metal was scooped up from the channel and poured into molds in the holes.
The technological knowledge needed to carve it was far superior to that for stamp seals, which had happened in the early Neolithic period (approximately 10,000-5000 B.C.E.).
Earth  s surface is not made up of a single sheet of rock that forms a crust but rather a number of   tectonic plates   that fit closely, like the pieces of a giant jigsaw puzzle.
Like many other island groups, they form a chain.
Moose reached Isle Royale in Lake Superior by crossing over winter ice and multiplied freely there in isolation without predators.
When experimental populations are set up under simple laboratory conditions, the predator often exterminates its prey and then becomes extinct itself, having nothing left to eat.
As hare numbers fall, so do lynx numbers, as their food supply depleted.
This opens up space for many other organisms.
Nearly 50 percent of all groundwater is stored in the upper 1,000 meters of Earth.
At greater depths within Earth, the pressure of the overlying rock causes pores and cracks to close, reducing the space that pore water can occupy, and almost complete closure occurs at a depth of about 10 kilometers.
The vadose zone supplies plant roots near the surface with water.
The people who hunted the sparse desert animals responded to drought by managing the wild resources they hunted and gathered, especially wild oxen, which had to have regular water supplies to survive.
Both humans and animals were constantly on the move, in search of food and reliable water supplies.
At the same time, both cattle and humans were more confined in their movements, staying much closer to permanent water supplies for long periods of time.
The newly domesticated animals behaved better, were easier to control, and may have enjoyed a higher birth rate, which in turn yielded greater milk supplies.
The experiments with domestication probably occurred in many places, as people living in ever-drier environments cast around for more predictable food supplies.
However, it is impossible to do justice to Roman wares on the page, even when words can be backed up by photographs and drawings.
It is made up entirely of broken oil amphorae, mainly of the second and third centuries A.D.
It has been estimated that Monte Testaccio contains the remains of some 53 million amphorae, in which around 6,000 million liters of oil were imported into the city from overseas, imports into imperial Rome were supported by the full might of the state and were therefore quite exceptional  but the size of the operations at Monte Testaccio, and the productivity and complexity that lay behind them, nonetheless cannot fail to impress.
No serious competition exists when the major needed resource is in superabundant supply, as in most cases of the coexistence of herbivores (plant eaters).
On the basis of these experiments and of field observations, the so-called law of competitive exclusion was formulated, according to which no two species can occupy the same niche.
Numerous seeming exceptions to this law have since been found, but they can usually be explained as cases in which the two species, even though competing for a major joint resource, did not really occupy exactly the same niche.
The physical structure of species competing for resources in the same ecological niche tends to gradually evolve in ways that allow them to occupy different niches.
They revealed output powers ranging from about 1 horsepower to perhaps 60 for the largest wheels and confirmed that for maximum efficiency, the water should pass across the blades as smoothly as possible and fall away with minimum speed, having given up almost all of its kinetic energy.
The waterwheel, unaltered for nearly 2,000 years, had finally been superseded.
In 1881 the Godalming power station in Surrey, England, on the banks of the Wey River, created the world's first public electricity supply.
Determining the functions of play is difficult because the functions may be long-term, with beneficial effects not showing up until the animal  s adulthood.
Therefore, it results in the loss of fuel or energy that might better be used for growth or for building up fat stores in a young animal.
In one research study, two groups of young rats were raised under different conditions.
One group developed in an   enriched   environment, which allowed the rats to interact with other rats, play with toys, and receive maze training.
The other group lived in an   impoverished   environment in individual cages in a dimly lit room with litter stimulation.
Learning appropriate social behaviors is especially important in species that live in groups, like young monkeys that need to learn to control selfishness and aggression and to understand the give-and-take involved in social groups.
Darwin  s original thesis and the viewpoint supported by evolutionary gradualists, is that species change continuously but slowly and in small increments.
A convincing 50-million-year sequence of modern horse ancestors    each slightly larger, with more complex teeth, a longer face, and a more prominent central toe    seemed to provide strong support for Darwin  s contention that species evolve gradually.
The clock provided the punctuation marks for group activity, while enabling individuals to order their own work (and that of others) so as to enhance productivity.
In the absence of gene flow between the subpopulations, genetic differences between the groups begin to accumulate.
We find evidence of such extended events in the fossil record, which affords glimpses into the breakup of formerly continuous environments.
Some groups that had descended from the same parent population were no longer reproductively compatible  they had evolved into separate species.
In other groups, however, genetic divergences had not proceeded so far, and the descendants could still interbreed   for them, reproductive isolation was not completed, and so speciation had not occurred. 
Allopatric speciation can also be brought by the imperceptibly slow but colossal movements of the tectonic plates that make up Earth  s surface.
Whereas parents in China tend to see preschools primarily as a way of giving children a good start academically, Japanese parents view them primarily as a way of giving children the opportunity to be members of a group.
In the United States, in comparison, parents regard the primary purpose of preschools as making children more independent and self-reliant, although obtaining a good academic start and having group experience are also important.
The most recent comprehensive evaluation of early intervention programs suggests that, taken as a group, preschools programs can provide significant benefits, and that government funds invested early in life may ultimately lead to a reduction in future costs.
Elkind argues that academic success is largely dependent upon factors out of parents   control, such as inherited abilities and a child  s rate of maturation.
More moderate conditions support moist forests. 
Though most savannas are found on sites with poor soils(because of either moisture conditions or nutrient levels of both), poor soils can and do support lush rain forest. 
The thin upper layer of humans(decayed organic matter) is destroyed by cutting and burning.
The first community that occupies a disturbed area therefore may be composed of species with the highest rate of invasion, whereas the community of the subsequent stage may consist of plants with similar survival rates but lower invasion rates.
Much population movement involved the opening up of new lands for rice cultivation.
By the early twentieth century, as government modernization in a sense caught up with what had been happening in the countryside since the 1870s, the government bureaucracy intruded more and more into village life.
They generally nest in trees and live in colonies made up of hundreds to thousands of workers.
Aggressive species usually forage in groups and feed mainly on flowers that occur in high-density clumps.
Nonaggressive species feed singly or in small groups and on more widely distributed flowers.
They predicted that the colonies of aggressive species would show regular distributions, while those of nonaggressive species would show random or closely grouped (clumped) distribution.
While this contest over an unoccupied nest site produced no obvious mortality, fights over occupied nests sometimes kill over 1,000 bees in a single battle. 
Chicago became the region  s hub, linking the farms of the upper Midwest to New York and other eastern cities by more than 2,000 miles of track in 1855.
By the 1850s McCormick was selling 1,000 reapers a year and could not keep up with demand, while Deere turned out 10,000 plows annually.
In popular language this was the era   when dinosaurs ruled Earth,   when a wide variety of reptile species occupying many ecological niches.
However, no group or species can maintain its dominance indefinitely, and when, after over 200 million years, the age of dinosaurs came to a dramatic end about 65 million years ago, mammals began to flourish, evolving from relatively few types of small terrestrial animals into the myriad of diverse species, including bats and whales, that we know today.
Overall, about 38 percent of the families of marine animals were lost, with percentages much higher in some groups Ammonoid mollusks went from being very diverse and abundant to being extinct.
Explanations for the K-T extinction were revolutionized in 1980 when a group of physical scientists led by Luis Alvarez proposed that 65 million years ago Earth was stuck by a 10-kilometer-wide meteorite traveling at 90,000 kilometers per hour.
Papermaking spread quickly to Egypt---and eventually to Sicily and Spain---but it was several centuries before paper supplanted parchment for copies of the Koran, probably because of the conservative nature of religious art and its practitioners.
Wood was in ever-shorter supply, yet it remained tremendously important.
Since the highly active worker ants require a great deal of energy, plants exploit this need by providing extrafloral nectar that supplies ants with abundant energy.
Bentley compared the seed production of six plants that grew where there were no ants with that of seventeen plants that were occupied by ants.
Unprotected plants bore only 45 seeds per plant, but plants occupied by ants bore 211 seeds per plant.
He observed that the Nile River Delta was in fact a series of sediment deposits built up in successive floods.
By noting that individual floods deposit only thin layers of sediment, he was able to conclude that the Nile Delta had taken many thousands of years to build up.
Forces associated with subterranean heat cause land to be uplifted into plateaus and mountain ranges.
The effects of wind and water then break down the masses of uplifted rock, producing sediment that is transported by water downward to ultimately form layers in lakes, seashores, or even oceans.
These rocks are then uplifted sometime in the future to form new mountain ranges, which exhibit the sedimentary layers (and the remains of life within those layers) of the earlier episodes of erosion and deposition.
It had been recognized by the German philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724-1804) that chemical reactions could not supply the tremendous amount of energy flowing from the Sun for more than about a millennium.
Two physicists during the nineteenth century both came up with ages for the Sun based on the Sun's energy coming from gravitational contraction.
Small nomadic groups could easily supply the necessities for their families.
Cereals, which are easy to digest, would have supplemented and then replaced mother's milk as the primary food for older infants.
Once it picks up speed, it is difficult to control.
One possible response to surpassing the carrying capacity of a region is for a group to exploit adjoining land.
Where neighbors are in the same position, having filled up the whole of the desirable habitat available in their home territories, expansion is also problematic.
Impinging on the neighbors' territory can lead to conflict, especially when they too are up against the capacity of the land to provide enough food.
Hierarchies that did not exist in earlier foraging groups but that were helpful in structuring cooperative labor and in organizing more-complex technologies probably became established, even before domestication and agriculture, as pre-Neolithic societies (before the tenth millennium B C E) reacted to the population increase.
Some species may be unable to thrive until a particular vitamin, or group of vitamins, is present in the water.
Many copepods (small, herbivorous crustaceans) and invertebrate larvae pick out selected phytoplankton species from mixed groups, changing the species composition.
The numerous plants and animals living in the soil release minerals from the parent material from which soil is formed, supply organic matter, aid in the translocation (movement) and aeration of the soil, and help protect the soil from erosion.
For this reason, a soil scientist can tell a great deal about the attributes of the soil in any given area simply form knowing what kind of flora the soil supports.
A third group of bacteria inhabits the root systems of plants called legumes.
Tress, grass, and other large plants supply the bulk of the soil  s humus.
In addition, trees can extend their roots deep within the soil and bring up nutrients from far below the surface.
Under exceptionally favorable conditions, up to a million earthworms (with a total body weight exceeding 450 kilograms) may inhabit an acre of soil.
As a result, the soil is aerated broken up, fertilized, and brought to the surface, hastening soil development. 
It brought back mud laced with worms, and starfish that dad entangled themselves in the line at depths well below the supposed boundary of the azoic zone.
Originally moths were uniformly pale gray or whitish in color; dark-colored (melanic) individuals were rare and made up less than 2 percent of the population.
Kettlewell set up hidden observation positions and watched birds voraciously eat moths placed on tree trunks of a contrasting color.
More recent data, however, provide additional support for Kettleweir  s ideas about natural selection.
Many others had asked the same question before him, but Thales based his answer strictly on what he had observed and what he could reason out--not on imaginative stories about the gods or the supernatural.
Anaximander is credited with drawing up the first world map of the Greeks and also with recognizing that Earth  s surface was curved.
Anaximander, observing the motions of the heavens around the polestar, was probably the first of the Greek philosophers to picture the sky as sphere completely surrounding Earth--an idea that, elaborated upon later, would prevail until the advent of the Scientific Revolution in the seventeenth century. 
Unfortunately, too, most of the written work fo Anaximenes, who may have been Anaximander  s pupil, has also been lost.
Compressed, it became water and earth, and when rarefied or thinned out, it heated up to become fire.
Anaximenes may have also been the first to study rainbows and speculate upon their natural rather than supernatural cause. 
Although the troops appeared to undergo initial problems, causing them to split up, all the tracked females settled into normal behavioral patterns. 
For example, glass could be used to open up walls and eliminate their stone and brick masonry because large spaces could now be spanned with steel beams.
The fundamental premise of modern architecture was that the appearance of the building should exhibit the nature of its materials and forms of physical support.
For example, in traditional architecture, stone or brick walls served a structural role, but in a steel-beam building the walls were essentially hung from the internal skeleton of steel beams, which meant that walls and corners no longer needed to be solid but could be opened up in unexpected ways.
Similarly, steel beams could be used to construct balconies that projected out from the building without any support beneath them.
Steel construction, on the other hand, can support a building of 50 or 100 stories without difficulty.
One problem was getting people to the upper floors, since after five or six stories it becomes exhausting to climb stairs.
The metal supporting buildings became soft when exposed to fire and collapsed relatively quickly.
The terra-cotta tiles were used both to encase the supporting members and as flooring.
Light microscopes can magnify objects up to 1,000 times without causing blurriness. 
It uses an electron beam to scan the surface of a cell or group of cells that have been coated with metal.
The control of coyotes in the prairie region in the 1950s may have been a factor in raccoon expansion, If their numbers are sufficient coyotes might be able to suppress raccoon populations (though little direct evidence supports this notion).
Transgenics, at least superficially, simplify farming by reducing the choices made by the manager.
It still seems a lot to recall, but what was lost in efficiency was more than made up for in the beauty and richness of the texts.
Between 80 and 85 million years ago, Gondwanaland, a giant continent made up of what today is Africa, Antarctica, Australia, and South America, broke up, thus causing what is now New Zealand to become separated from the larger landmass.
The species of moa that are currently recognized occupied ecological niches customarily filled elsewhere by large mammalian browsing herbivores.
Different factors could have worked in concert to account for their abrupt disappearance.
Vegetation was considerably altered by the Maori occupation of New Zealand, a change not easily explained by climate variation or other possible factors.
One factor is the direct effect of logging, which often turns a forest into something approximating a huge pile of kindling (wood for burning): the ground in a logged forest may remain covered with branches and treetops, left behind when the valuable trunks are carted away; a dense growth of new vegetation springs up, further increasing the forest  s fuel loads; and the trees logged and removed are of course the biggest and most fire-resistant individuals, leaving behind smaller and more flammable trees.
Another factor is that the United States Forest Service in the first decade of the 1900s adopted the policy of fire suppression (attempting to put out forest fires) for the obvious reason that it did not want valuable timber to go up in smoke, or people  s homes and lives to be threatened.
People began to realize that the United States federal government  s fire-suppression policy was contributing to those big fires and that natural fires caused by lighting had previously played an important role in maintaining forest structure.
To make Montana  s low-altitude ponderosa pine forest as an example, historical records, plus counts of annual tree rings and datable fire scars on tree stumps, demonstrated that a ponderosa pine forest experiences a lightning-lit fire about once a decade under natural conditions (i.e.., before fire suppression began around 1910 and became effective after 1945).
The mature ponderosa trees have bark two inches thick and are relatively resistant to fire, which instead burns out the understory  the lower layer  of fire-sensitive Douglas fir seedlings that have grown up since the previous fire.
However, loggers concentrated on removing those big, old, valuable, fire-resistant ponderosa pines, while fire suppression for decades let the understory fill up with Douglas fir saplings that would in turn become valuable when full-grown.
Foresters now identify the biggest problem in managing Western forests as what to do with those increased fuel loads that built up during the previous half century of effective fire suppression.
and 450 B.C., evolved what Greeks regarded as a fully-fledged democratic constitution, though the light to vote was given to fewer groups of people than is seen in modem times.
Various committees acted as an executive branch, implementing policies of the assembly and supervising, for instance, the food and water supplies and public buildings.
The effect of Cleisthenes, reforms was to establish the superiority of the Athenian community as a whole over local institutions without destroying them.
By any measure other than that of the aristocrats  who had been upstaged by the supposedly inferior "people," the Athenian democracy was a stunning success.
This seems to be true for many different groups of animals and plants.
The tropics contain a larger surface area of land than higher latitudes  a fact that is not always evident when we examine commonly used projections of Earth's curved surface, since this tends to exaggerate the areas of land in the higher latitudes-and some biogeographers regard the differences in diversity as a reflection of this effect But an analysis of the data by biologist Klaus Rohde does not support this explanation.
Where conditions are most suitable for plant growth  that is, where temperatures are relatively high and uniform and where there is an ample supply of water-one usually finds large masses of vegetation.
In a tropical rain forest, for example, a very large quantity of plant material builds up above the surface of the ground.
In a mature floodplain tropical forest in the Amazon River basin, the canopy (the uppermost layers of a forest, formed by the crowns of trees) takes on a stratified structure.
An area of grassland vegetation with very simple structure, for example, has a very differed microclimate at the ground level from that experienced in the upper canopy.
The high plant biomass of the tropics leads to a greater spatial complexity in the environment, and this leads to a higher potential for diversity in the living things that can occupy a region.
Recently it has been shown that some North American frog and toad speeds can survive up to five days with a body temperature of -6*0 with approximately one-third of their body fluids frozen.
In many respects, such as education, occupation, and leisure activities, their life is like that of other groups that contribute to the diverse social fabric of North American culture in the twenty-first century.
The largest of these paintings may be up to 5.5 meters in diameter and cover the entire floor of a room.
The twenty-four known Navajo chants can be represented by up to 500 sand paintings.
These complex paintings serve as memory aids to guide the singers during the performance of the ritual songs, which can last up to nine days.
Just as on present-day Earth, the oceans of Venus limited the amount of atmospheric carbon dioxide by dissolving it in the oceans and binding it up in carbonate rocks.
Bartering was a basic trade mechanism for many thousands of years; often sporadic and usually based on notions of reciprocity, it involved the mutual exchange of commodities or objects between individuals or groups.
Redistribution of these goods through society lay in the hands of chiefs, religious leaders, or kin groups.
As agricultural economies became more diversified and local food supplies could be purchased both locally and over longer distances, a far-reaching economic interdependence resulted.
Intricate market networks channeled supplies along well-defined routes.
For example, some have blamed dinosaur extinction on the development of flowering plants, which were supposedly more difficult to digest and could have caused constipation or indigestionexcept that flowering plants first evolved in the Early Cretaceous, about 60 million years before the dinosaurs died out.
This focus on explaining dinosaur extinction misses an important point: the extinction at the end of the Cretaceous was a global event that killed off organisms up and down the food chain.
These included a variety of clams and snails, and especially the ammonites, a group of shelled squidlike creatures that dominated the Mesozoic seas and had survived many previous mass extinctions.
From 1996 to 1999, the Galileo spacecraft passed through the Jovian system, providing much information about Jupiter's satellites.
Callisto, the outermost of Jupiter's four largest satellites, orbits the planet in seventeen days at a distance from Jupiter of two million kilometers.
Like our own Moon, Callisto rotates in the same period as it revolves, so it always keeps the same face toward Jupiter.
Ganymede, another of Jupiter's satellites and the largest in our solar system, is also cratered, but less so than Callisto.
But more likely the gravity of Jupiter is to blame for Ganymede's continuing geological activity.
Ganymede is close enough to Jupiter that tidal forces from the giant planet may have episodically heated its interior and triggered major convulsions on its crust.
Alexander  s actions had several important consequences for the region occupied by the empire.
Third, Greek philosophy was opened up to the philosophy and religion of the East At the peak of the Greek city-state, religion played an important part.
Its gods  such as Zeus, father of the gods, and his wife Hera  were thought of very much as being like human beings but with superhuman abilities.
was the first person in Greece to propose a morality based on individual conscience rather than the demands of the state, and for this he was accused of not believing in the city  s gods and so corrupting the youth, and he was condemned to death.
Sampling on the continental shelves and along the base of the continental slopes has shown that fine muds beneath the seafloor contain up to 8 percent organic matter.
Two additional kinds of evidence support the hypothesis that petroleum is a product of the decomposition of organic matter: oil possesses optical properties known only in hydrocarbons derived from organic matter, and oil contains nitrogen and certain compounds believed to originate only in living matter.
Hence, because oil and water do not mix, water remains fastened to the quartz or carbonate grains, while oil occupies the central parts of the larger openings in the porous sandstone or limestone.
Because oil is lighter than water, it tends to glide upward past the carbonate- and quartz-held water.
This upwelling of water has economic repercussions.
Without the upwelling of nutrients from below to feed the fish, fishing comes to a standstill.
While the warm-water countercurrent usually lasts for two months or less, there are occasions when the disruption to the normal flow lasts for many months.
The western Pacific develops a thick, warm layer of water while the eastern Pacific has the cold Humboldt Current enhanced by upwelling.
One of the groups whose fossils are especially common in rocks deposited in fresh water is the lobe-finned fish.
The image of the illuminated area outside the enclosure is thrown upside down as if by magic onto a surface in the darkened enclosure.
In recent times the British artist David Hockney has published his investigations into the secret use of the camera obscura, claiming that for up to 400 years, many of Western art  s great masters probably used the device to produce almost photographically realistic details in their paintings.
He includes in this group Caravaggio, Hans Holbein, Leonardo da Vinci, Diego Velazquez, Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres, Agnolo Bronzino, and Jan van Eyck.
This accumulation, in turn, reduces the water movement and the oxygen supply.
Although marine botanist W. A. Setchell suggested early on that temperature was critical to the growth and reproduction of eelgrass, it has since been shown that this particularly widespread seagrass grows and reproduces at temperatures between 2 and 4 degrees Celsius in the Arctic and at temperatures up to 28 degrees Celsius on the northeastern coast of the United States.
Researchers Robertson and Mann note that when the ice begins to break up, the wind and tides may move the ice around, scouring the bottom and uprooting the eelgrass.
It is through Beringia that small groups of large mammal hunters, slowly expanding their hunting territories, eventually colonized North and South America.
This land mass supported herds of now-extinct species of mammoth, bison, and horse and somewhat modern versions of caribou, musk ox, elk, and saiga antelope.
These grazers supported in turn a number of impressive carnivores, including the giant short-faced bear, the saber-tooth cat, and a large species of lion.
The presence of mammal species that require grassland vegetation has led Arctic biologist Dale Guthrie to argue that while cold and dry, there must have been broad areas of dense vegetation to support herds of mammoth, horse, and bison.
Further, nearly all of the ice-age fauna had teeth that indicate an adaptation to grasses and sedges; they could not have been supported by a modern flora of mosses and lichens.
He found that the amount of pollen recovered in these sediments is so low that the Beringian landscape during the peak of the last glaciation was more likely to have been what he termed a "polar desert," with little or only sparse vegetation, in no way was it possible that this region could have supported large herds of mammals and thus, human hunters.
The first was the discovery of a 1,000-square-kilometer preserved patch of Beringian vegetation dating to just over 17,000 years ago  the peak of the last ice age The plants were preserved under a thick ash fall from a volcanic eruption.
But this vegetation had a thin root mat with no soil formation, demonstrating that there was little long-term stability in plant cover, a finding supporting some of the arguments of Colinvaux.
A mixture of continuous but thin vegetation supporting herds of large mammals is one that seems plausible and realistic with the available data.
It is like trying to get a letter to a friend at the other end of the village by climbing onto the roof and throwing an armful of letters into the air and hoping that one will end up in the friend's garden.
For the relatively few dominant tree species that make up temperate forests, where there are many individuals of the same species within pollen range, this is quite a safe gamble.
Once the pollen has been snatched by the wind, the fate of the pollen is obviously up to the vagaries of the wind, but not everything is left to chance.
Even fishes can become successful filter-feeders in some circumstances Although the vast majority of marine fishes are carnivores, in near-surface regions of high productivity the concentrations of larger phytoplankton (the plant component of plankton) are sufficient to support huge populations of filter-feeding sardines and anchovies.
Many of the groups of animals that typify the filter-feeding lifestyle in shallow water have deep-sea representatives that have become predatory.
These developments added up to what one modern scholar has called "a commercial revolution."
Conservation biologists have long been concerned that species extinction could have significant consequences for the stability of entire ecosystems  groups of interacting organisms and the physical environment that they inhabit.
Second, diverse ecosystems may be less likely to be invaded by new species, notably exotics (foreign species living outside their native range), that would disrupt the ecosystem  s structure and function.
One of the first studies to provide data supporting a relationship between diversity and stability examined how grassland plants responded to a drought.
Downing used the ratio of above-ground biomass in 1988 (after two years of drought) to that in 1986 (predrought) in 207 plots in a grassland field in the Cedar Creek Natural History Area in Minnesota as an index of ecosystem response to disruption by drought.
Furthermore, a species-rich ecosystem is more likely to have species with similar ecological functions, so that if a species is lost from an ecosystem, another species, probably a competitor, is likely to flourish and occupy its functional role.
Local workshops did develop and stylistically similar groups of sculpture show how skills in this new medium became widerspread.
On occasion large groups amassed for war or religious festivals, but society remained centered on small communities.
Supremacy was accentuated by the unyielding straight lines of both individual buildings and planned settlements since these too provided a marked contrast with the natural curvilinear shapes dominant in the native realm.
Ants and the other social members of their order, certain bees and wasps, have complete metarnorphosis in four life stages; egg, larva, pupa, and adult.
Some tropical termites are more ingenious engineers, constructing huge above-ground nests with built-in   air conditioning   that keeps the nest moist, at a constant temperature, and well supplied with oxygen.
The metabolism of so many termites and of the fungus that they grow in their gardens as food helps keep the interior of the nest warm and supplies some moisture to the air in the nest.
The termites saturate the atmosphere of the nest, bringing it to about 100 percent relative humidity, by carrying water up from the soil.
Its many occupants require over 250 quarts of oxygen (more than 1,200 quarts of aire) per day.
The warm air in the fungus gardens rises through the nest up to the attic.
It supplies the nest  s inhabitants with fresh oxygen as it rises through the fungus-growing area back up to the attic.
Darwin s theory was that the succession from one coral reef type to another could be achieved by the upward growth of coral from a sinking platform, and that there would be a progression from a fringing reef, through the barrier reef stage until, with the disappearance through subsidence (sinking) of the central island, only a reef-enclosed lagoon or atoll would survive.
The drill holes passed through more than a thousand meters of coral before reaching the rock substratum of the ocean floor, and indicated that the coral had been growing upward for tens of millions of years as Earth's crust subsided at a rate of between 15 and 51 meters per million years.
There are some submarine islands called guyots and seamounts, in which subsidence associated with sea-floor spreading has been too speedy for coral growth to keep up.
In the Western experience, commerce provided the conditions that allowed industrialization to get started, which in turn led to growth in science, technology, industry, transport, communications, social change, and the like that we group under the broad term of   development.
But of most critical importance was the food supply.
Assuming that China  s population in 1400 was about 80 million, the economist Dwight Perkins concludes that its growth to 700 million or more in the 1960s was made possible by a steady increase in the grain supply, which evidently grew five or six times between 1400 and 1800 and rose another 50 percent between 1800 and 1965.
This increase of food supply was due perhaps half to the increase of cultivated area, particularly by migration and settlement in the central and western provinces, and half to greater productivity  the farmers   success in raising more crops per unit of land.
The jaw joint of carnivores such as dogs and cats has the mechanical advantage of being at the same level as the tooth row, allowing the jaws to close with tremendous speed and forcing the upper teeth to occlude against the lower teeth with great precision.
The duck-billed dinosaurs known as hadrosaurs are a good example of a group whose jaw joint is below the level of the tooth row, which probably helped them grind up tough, fibrous vegetation. 
Some particles serve as nuclei upon which water and ice form.
This piling up of air over the city then slowly rises, much like toothpaste does when its tube is squeezed.
When the ice sheets grew, the sea level would drop as water became locked up in the glaciers; when the ice melted, the sea level would rise again.
The existence of Beringia (and the extent to which it could have supported human life) is one of the crucial pieces of evidence in the continuing debate about the likely route and date of human colonization of the New World.
In the majority of cases, the beaches lie at a higher level because the land has been raised up through isostatic uplift or tectonic movement.
Isostatic uplift of the land occurs when the weight of ice is removed as temperatures rise, as at the end of an ice age; it has affected coastlines, for example, in Scandinavia, Scotland, Alaska, and Newfoundland during the postglacial period.
Tectonic movements involve displacements in the plates that make up Earth  s crust, Middle and Late Pleistocene raised beaches in the Mediterranean are one instance of such movements.
Between 200 B.C and A.D 300, this was supplemented by vellum, calf skin treated and then smoothed by pumice stone.
Presses sprang up in several German cities, and by 1470, Nuremberg, Germany had established itself as the center of the international publishing trade, printing books from 24 presses and distributing them at trade fairs all over western and central Europe.
The old monastic scriptoria-monastery workshops where monks copied texts by hand-worked closely alongside the new presses, continuing to produce the luxury goods that movable-type printing could not yet supply.
The Italians made energetic and successful efforts to catch up with Germany.
Their most successful scriptorium quickly imported two leading German printers to set up presses in their book-producing shop.
An increasingly larger portion of the stepped-up commercial activity was the result of trade with overseas colonies.
Great Britain also had rich deposits of coal that fed the factories springing up in industrial and consumer goods. 
Eventually they found their way to the cities or mining communities and provided the human power upon which the Industrial Revolution was built.
