In 1769 in a little town in Oxfordshire, England, a child with the very ordinary name of William Smith was born into the poor family of a village blacksmith.
He received rudimentary village schooling, but mostly he roamed his uncle's farm collecting the fossils that were so abundant in the rocks of the Cotswold hills.
Much of the potential for European economic development lay in what at first glance would seem to have been only sleepy villages.
Such villages, however, generally lay in regions of relatively advanced agricultural production, permitting not only the survival of peasants but also the accumulation of an agricultural surplus for investment.
Long-handed Neolithic spoons of yew wood preserved in Alpine villages dating to 3000 B.C.
Why were these hundreds of thousands of settlers  most of them farmers, some of them artisans  drawn away from the cleared fields and established cities and villages of the East?
The European ancestors of some Americans had for centuries lived rooted to the same village or piece of land until some religious, political, or economic crisis uprooted them and drove them across the Atlantic.
Within 2,000 years, the human population of the region numbered in the tens of thousands, all as a result of village life and farming.
Abu Hureyra was founded about 9500B.C, a small village settlement of cramped pit dwellings (houses dug partially in the soil) with reed roofs supported by wooden uprights.
Five centuries later, about 7700B.C., a new village rose on the mound.
The first meteorite from this fall was found in the village of Pueblito de Allende.
Whole villages began to cultivate fruit and vegetables.
In the face of all these pushes, people in the Mesa Verde area had yet another reason to move into communal villages: the need for greater cooperation.
In all but the remotest regions of the empire, Roman pottery of a high standard is common at the sites of humble villages and isolated farmsteads.
According to the government  s first census of the rural population, taken in 1905, there were about thirty thousand villages in Siam.
The villages became more vulnerable to arbitrary treatment by government bureaucrats as local elites now hand less control over them.
By the early twentieth century, as government modernization in a sense caught up with what had been happening in the countryside since the 1870s, the government bureaucracy intruded more and more into village life.
More economic variation took shape in rural villages, as some grew prosperous from farming while others did not.
How the first governments took shape in these areas is not certain, but anthropologists studying the evolution of human communities in various parts of the world have discovered that one common stage in the process is the emergence of what are called   big men   within a single village or a collection of villages.
These more vulnerable members of society could safely stay in a fixed village rather than be forced regularly to move great distances as part of a nomadic existence, with its greater risk of accidents and trauma.
The Peisistratids, as the succession of tyrants were called (after the founder of the dynasty, Peisistratos), strengthened Athenian central administration at the expense of the aristocracy by appointing judges throughout the region, producing Athens' first national coinage, and adding and embellishing festivals that tended to focus attention on Athens rather than on local villages of the surrounding region.
Such connections, and the trading expeditions to maintain them, could not be organized by individual villages.
It is like trying to get a letter to a friend at the other end of the village by climbing onto the roof and throwing an armful of letters into the air and hoping that one will end up in the friend's garden.
If a number of people in the village were throwing letters off roofs, your friend would be bound to get one.
These have changed constantly through time, even in relatively recent periods, as can be seen from the Neolithic stone circle of Er Lannic, in Brittany, France (once inland but now half submerged on an island) or medieval villages in east Yorkshire, England, that have tumbled into the sea in the last few centuries as the North Sea gnaws its way westward and erodes the cliffs.
Nonlandholding peasants and cottage workers, who worked for wages and grazed cows or pigs on the village common, were also hurt when the common was no longer available.
