The necessary space is there, however, in many forms.
They are found wherever fast rivers carrying loads of coarse sediment once flowed.
For example, as the great ice sheets that covered North America during the last ice age steadily melted away, huge volumes of water flowed from them.
The water was always laden with pebbles, gravel, and sand, known as glacial outwash, that was deposited as the flow slowed down. 
It is held there by the force of surface tension without which water would drain instantly from any wet surface, leaving it totally dry.
The most widely accepted theory, championed by anthropologists in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, envisions theater as emerging out of myth and ritual.
During the early stages of its development, a society becomes aware of forces that appear to influence or control its food supply and well-being.
Perceiving an apparent connection between certain actions performed by the group and the result it desires, the group repeats, refines and formalizes those actions into fixed ceremonies, or rituals.
Performers may wear costumes and masks to represent the mythical characters or supernatural forces in the rituals or in accompanying celebrations.
Most answers fall back on the theories about the human mind and basic human needs.
Another, advanced in the twentieth century, suggests that humans have a gift for fantasy, through which they seek to reshape reality into more satisfying forms than those encountered in daily life.
For example, one sign of this condition is the appearance of the comic vision, since comedy requires sufficient detachment to view some deviations from social norms as ridiculous rather than as serious threats to the welfare of the entire group.
For example, some early societies ceased to consider certain rites essential to their well-being and abandoned them, nevertheless, they retained as parts of their oral tradition the myths that had grown up around the rites and admired them for their artistic qualities rather than for their religious usefulness. 
In many semiarid areas there is also a lower timberline where the forest passes into steppe or desert at its lower edge, usually because of a lack of moisture.
The upper timberline, like the snow line, is highest in the tropics and lowest in the Polar Regions.
There are some areas, however, where broadleaf deciduous trees form the timberline.
Their streamlined bodies, the absence of hind legs, and the presence of a fluke1 and blowhole2 cannot disguise their affinities with land dwelling mammals.
However, unlike the cases of sea otters and pinnipeds (seals, sea lions, and walruses, whose limbs are functional both on land and at sea), it is not easy to envision what the first whales looked like.
How was the gap between a walking mammal and a swimming whale bridged?
Missing until recently were fossils clearly intermediate, or transitional, between land mammals and cetaceans.
Very exciting discoveries have finally allowed scientists to reconstruct the most likely origins of cetaceans.
Pakicetus was found embedded in rocks formed from river deposits that were 52 million years old.
Other features, however, show experts that Pakicetus is a transitional form between a group of extinct flesh-eating mammals, the mesonychids, and cetaceans.
Several skeletons of another early whale, Basilosaurus, were found in sediments left by the Tethys Sea and now exposed in the Sahara desert.
Many incomplete skeletons were found but they included, for the first time in an archaeocyte, a complete hind leg that features a foot with three tiny toes.
The legs were strong and ended in long feet very much like those of a modern pinniped.
The legs were certainly functional both on land and at sea.
The structure of the backbone shows, however, that Ambulocetus swam like modern whales by moving the rear portion of its body up and down, even though a fluke was missing.
The large hind legs were used for propulsion in water.
There is little doubt, however, that desertification in most areas results primarily from human activities rather than natural processes.
In wet periods, the land may be able to respond to these stresses.
This is usually followed by the drying of the soil and accelerated erosion. 
The extreme seriousness of desertification results from the vast areas of land and the tremendous numbers of people affected, as well as from the great difficulty of reversing or even slowing the process.
The cinema did not emerge as a form of mass consumption until its technology evolved from the initial "peepshow" format to the point where images were projected on a screen in a darkened theater.
In the peepshow format, a film was viewed through a small opening in a machine that was created for that purpose.
These Kinetoscope arcades were modeled on phonograph parlors, which had proven successful for Edison several years earlier.
Exhibitors, however, wanted to maximize their profits, which they could do more readily by projecting a handful of films to hundreds of customers at a time (rather than one at a time) and by charging 25 to 50 cents admission.
These early projection devices were used in vaudeville theaters, legitimate theaters, local town halls, makeshift storefront theaters, fairgrounds, and amusement parks to show films to a mass audience.
Previously, large audiences had viewed spectacles at the theater, where vaudeville, popular dramas, musical and minstrel shows, classical plays, lectures, and slide-and-lantern shows had been presented to several hundred spectators at a time.
With the advent of projection, the viewer's relationship with the image was no longer private, as it had been with earlier peepshow devices such as the Kinetoscope and the Mutoscope, which was a similar machine that reproduced motion by means of successive images on individual photographic cards instead of on strips of celluloid.
It suddenly became public  an experience that the viewer shared with dozens, scores, and even hundreds of others.
In earlier times it was necessary to design structural systems suitable for the materials that were available, such as wood, stone, brick.
Progress in this area can be measured by the difference in weight between buildings built now and those of comparable size built one hundred years ago.
Of course in early architecture  such as igloos and adobe structures  there was no such equipment, and the skeleton and skin were often one.
The doorways and windows are made possible by placing over the open spaces thick stone beams that support the weight from above.
As a method of spanning space, the arch can support greater weight than a horizontal beam.
It works in compression to divert the weight above it out to the sides, where the weight is borne by the vertical elements on either side of the arch.
The vast grasslands of the High Plains in the central United States were settled by farmers and ranchers in the 1880s.
In the early twentieth century, however, it was discovered that much of the High Plains was underlain by a huge aquifer (a rock layer containing large quantities of groundwater).
The Ogallala aquifer is a sandstone formation that underlies some 583,000 square kilometers of land extending from northwestern Texas to southern South Dakota.
The first wells were drilled into the Ogallala during the drought years of the early 1930s.
More than 100,000 wells now tap the Ogallala.
In the 1930s, wells encountered plentiful water at a depth of about 15 meters; currently, they must be dug to depths of 45 to 60 meters or more.
In places, the water table is declining at a rate of a meter a year, necessitating the periodic deepening of wells and the use of ever-more-powerful pumps.
Others, however, have adopted the philosophy that it is best to use the water while it is still economically profitable to do so and to concentrate on high-value crops such as cotton.
Even if this process proves successful, however, it would almost triple water costs.
Whatever the final answer to the water crisis may be, it is evident that within the High Plains, irrigation water will never again be the abundant, inexpensive resource it was during the agricultural boom years of the mid-twentieth century.
An ecologist who studies a pond today may well find it relatively unchanged in a year  s time.
Support for this idea came from the observation that long-lasting climax communities usually have more complex food webs and more species diversity than pioneer communities.
To take an extreme example, farmlands dominated by a single crop are so unstable that one year of bad weather or the invasion of a single pest can destroy the entire crop.
In contrast, a complex climax community, such as a temperate forest, will tolerate considerable damage from weather to pests.
The question of ecosystem stability is complicated, however.
The destruction caused by the volcanic explosion of Mount St. Helens, in the northwestern United States, for example, pales in comparison to the destruction caused by humans.
We need to know what aspects of a community are most important to the community  s resistance to destruction, as well as its recovery.
Even if the new population is of a different species, it can approximately fill the niche vacated by the extinct population and keep the food web intact.
Two species of deer have been prevalent in the Puget Sound area of Washington State in the Pacific Northwest of the United States.
The black-tailed deer, a lowland, west-side cousin of the mule deer of eastern Washington, is now the most common.
The other species, the Columbian white-tailed deer, in earlier times was common in the open prairie country; it is now restricted to the low, marshy islands and flood plains along the lower Columbia River. 
But this is fair-weather feeding.
They had experienced great difficulty finding game west of the Rockies and not until the second of December did they kill their first elk.
David Douglas, Scottish botanical explorer of the 1830s, found a disturbing change in the animal life around the fort during the period between his first visit in 1825 and his final contact with the fort in 1832.
A recent Douglas biographer states:" The deer which once picturesquely dotted the meadows around the fort were gone [in 1832], hunted to extermination in order to protect the crops."
In addition to finding an increase of suitable browse, like huckleberry and vine maple, Arthur Einarsen, longtime game biologist in the Pacific Northwest, found quality of browse in the open areas to be substantially more nutritive.
The protein content of shade-grown vegetation, for example, was much lower than that for plants grown in clearings.
The researchers Peter Ucko and Andree Rosenfeld identified three principal locations of paintings in the caves of western Europe: (1) in obviously inhabited rock shelters and cave entrances; (2) in galleries immediately off the inhabited areas of caves; and (3) in the inner reaches of caves, whose difficulty of access has been interpreted by some as a sign that magical-religious activities were performed there. 
Perhaps, like many contemporary peoples, Upper Paleolithic men and women believed that the drawing of a human image could cause death or injury, and if that were indeed their belief, it might explain why human figures are rarely depicted in cave art.
Perhaps the paintings were inspired by the need to increase the supply of animals.
Cave art seems to have reached a peak toward the end of the Upper Paleolithic period, when the herds of game were decreasing. 
The particular symbolic significance of the cave paintings in southwestern France is more explicitly revealed, perhaps, by the results of a study conducted by researchers Patricia Rice and Ann Paterson.
The data they present suggest that the animals portrayed in the cave paintings were mostly the ones that the painters preferred for meat and for materials such as hides.
For example, wild cattle (bovines) and horses are portrayed more often than we would expect by chance, probably because they were larger and heavier (meatier) than other animals in the environment.
In addition, the paintings mostly portray animals that the painters may have feared the most because of their size, speed, natural weapons such as tusks and horns, and the unpredictability of their behavior.
Consistent with this idea, according to the investigators, is the fact that the art of the cultural period that followed the Upper Paleolithic also seems to reflect how people got their food.
But in that period, when getting food no longer depended on hunting large game animals (because they were becoming extinct), the art ceased to focus on portrayals of animals. 
Many shafts of spears and similar objects were decorated with figures of animals.
If this is true, it would mean that Upper Paleolithic people were capable of complex thought and were consciously aware of their environment.
It has been suggested that these figurines were an ideal type or an expression of a desire for fertility. 
When an oil pool or field has been discovered, wells are drilled into the ground.
Permanent towers, called derricks, used to be built to handle the long sections of drilling pipe.
When the well reaches a pool, oil usually rises up the well because of its density difference with water beneath it or because of the pressure of expanding gas trapped above it.
Although this rise of oil is almost always carefully controlled today, spouts of oil, or gushers, were common in the past.
Gas pressure gradually dies out, and oil is pumped from the well.
Water or steam may be pumped down adjacent wells to help push the oil out.
A significant part of this oil and gas comes from under the North Sea between Great Britain and Norway. 
Advancing technology and strict laws, however, are helping control some of these adverse environmental effects. 
Leaves develop chlorosis; stems are short and slender, and anthocyanin discoloration occurs on stems, petioles, and lower leaf surfaces.
Iron deficiency is characterized by chlorosis between veins in young leaves.
Research has focused on the toxic effects of heavy metals such as lead, cadmium, mercury, and aluminum; however, even copper and zinc, which are essential elements, can become toxic in high concentrations.
After several years of cultivation and harvest, the site would be restored at a cost much lower than the price of excavation and reburial, the standard practice for remediation of contaminated soils.
Melanesia, in the southwest Pacific, contains the large islands of New Guinea, the Solomons, Vanuatu, and New Caledonia.
Speculation on the origin of these Pacific islanders began as soon as outsiders encountered them, in the absence of solid linguistic, archaeological, and biological data, many fanciful and mutually exclusive theories were devised.
Pacific islanders are variously thought to have come from North America, South America, Egypt, Israel, and India, as well as Southeast Asia.
In 1947 Norwegian adventurer Thor Heyerdahl drifted on a balsa-log raft westward with the winds and currents across the Pacific from South America to prove his theory that Pacific islanders were Native Americans (also called American Indians).
Later Heyerdahl suggested that the Pacific was peopled by three migrations: by Native Americans from the Pacific Northwest of North America drifting to Hawaii, by Peruvians drifting to Easter Island, and by Melanesians.
Contrary to these theorists, the overwhelming evidence of physical anthropology, linguistics, and archaeology shows that the Pacific islanders came from Southeast Asia and were skilled enough as navigators to sail against the prevailing winds and currents.
These expeditions were likely driven by population growth and political dynamics on the home islands, as well as the challenge and excitement of exploring unknown waters.  
The undisputed pre-Columbian presence in Oceania of the sweet potato, which is a New World domesticate, has sometimes been used to support Heyerdahl  s   American Indians in the Pacific   theories.
However, this is one plant out of a long list of Southeast Asian domesticates.
As Patrick Kirch, an American anthropologist, points out, rather than being brought by rafting South Americans, sweet potatoes might just have easily been brought back by returning Polynesian navigators who could have reached the west coast of South America.
Paleontologists continue to search the fossil record for answers to these questions.
One interpretation regarding the absence of fossils during this important 100-million-year period is that early animals were soft bodied and simply did not fossilize.
This 700-million-year-old formation gives few clues to the origins of modern animals, however, because paleontologists believe it represents an evolutionary experiment that failed.
At one time, the animals present in these fossil beds were assigned to various modern animal groups, but most paleontologists now agree that all Tommotian fossils represent unique body forms that arose in the early Cambrian period and disappeared before the end of the period, leaving no descendants in modern animal groups.
For example, a well-known Burgess Shale animal called Sidneyia is a representative of a previously unknown group of arthropods (a category of animals that includes insects, spiders, mites, and crabs).
The Cambrian explosion involved rapid evolutionary diversification, followed by the extinction of many unique animals.
Many zoologists believe that it was because so many ecological niches were available with virtually no competition from existing species.
In Britain one of the most dramatic changes of the Industrial Revolution was the harnessing of power.
Until the reign of George   (1760-1820), available sources of power for work and travel had not increased since the Middle Ages.
There were three sources of power: animal or human muscles; the wind, operating on sail or windmill; and running water.
Only the last of these was suited at all to the continuous operating of machines, and although waterpower abounded in Lancashire and Scotland and ran grain mills as well as textile mills, it had one great disadvantage: streams flowed where nature intended them to, and water-driven factories had to be located on their banks whether or not the location was desirable for other reasons.
Furthermore, even the most reliable waterpower varied with the seasons and disappeared in a drought.
The new age of machinery, in short, could not have been born without a new source of both movable and constant power.
The final step came when steam was introduced into the cylinder to drive the piston backward as well as forward, thereby increasing the speed of the engine and cutting its fuel consumption.
Watt's steam engine soon showed what it could do.
Coal gas rivaled smoky oil lamps and flickering candles, and early in the new century, well-to-do Londoners grew accustomed to gaslit houses and even streets.
Iron manufacturers, which had starved for fuel while depending on charcoal, also benefited from ever-increasing supplies of coal: blast furnaces with steam-powered bellows turned out more iron and steel for the new machinery.
Steam became the motive force of the Industrial Revolution as coal and iron ore were the raw materials.
By 1800 more than a thousand steam engines were in use in the British Isles, and Britain retained a virtual monopoly on steam engine production until the 1830s.
Steam power did not merely spin cotton and roll iron; early in the new century, it also multiplied ten times over the amount of paper that a single worker could produce in a day.
Boats could carry heavy weights, but canals could not cross hilly terrain; turnpikes could cross the hills, but the roadbeds could not stand up under great weights.
In some industrial regions, heavily laden wagons, with flanged wheels, were being hauled by horses along metal rails; and the stationary steam engine was puffing in the factory and mine.
He received rudimentary village schooling, but mostly he roamed his uncle's farm collecting the fossils that were so abundant in the rocks of the Cotswold hills.
He then proceeded to teach himself geology, and when he was twenty-four, he went to work for the company that was excavating the Somerset Coal Canal in the south of England.
The companies building the canals to transport coal needed surveyors to help them find the coal deposits worth mining as well as to determine the best courses for the canals.
But as more and more accumulations of strata were cataloged in more and more places, it became clear that the sequences of rocks sometimes differed from region to region and that no rock type was ever going to become a reliable time marker throughout the world.
Quartz is quartz  a silicon ion surrounded by four oxygen ions  there  s no difference at all between two-million-year-old Pleistocene quartz and Cambrian quartz created over 500 million years ago.
Particularly in the younger strata, the rocks were often so similar that he had trouble distinguishing the strata, but he never had trouble telling the fossils apart.
While rock between two consistent strata might in one place be shale and in another sandstone, the fossils in that shale or sandstone were always the same.
It was actually a principle of floral succession as well, because plants showed the same transformation through time as did fauna.
What do you remember about your life before you were three?
Most people remember only a few events  usually ones that were meaningful and distinctive, such as being hospitalized or a sibling  s birth. 
However, hearing such stories is not sufficient for younger children to form enduring memories.
A third likely explanation for infantile amnesia involves incompatibilities between the ways in which infants encode information and the ways in which older children and adults retrieve it.
Whether people can remember an event depends critically on the fit between the way in which they earlier encoded the information and the way in which they later attempt to retrieve it.
This view is supported by a variety of factors that can create mismatches between very young children's encoding and older children's and adults' retrieval efforts.
In 1970 geologists Kenneth J. Hsu and William B.F. Ryan were collecting research data while aboard the oceanographic research vessel Glomar Challenger.
Most of the older organisms were nearly wiped out, although a few hardy species survived.
With question such as these clearly before them, the scientists aboard the Glomar Challenger processed to the Mediterranean to search for the answers.
The sample consisted of pebbles of hardened sediment that had once been soft, deep-sea mud, as well as granules of gypsum and fragments of volcanic rock.
In the days following, samples of solid gypsum were repeatedly brought on deck as drilling operations penetrated the seafloor.
Interbedded with the salt were thin layers of what appeared to be windblown silt.
Later, under the weight of overlying sediments, this salt flowed plastically upward to form salt domes.
Before this happened, however, the Mediterranean was a vast desert 3,000 meters deep.
Like the stone of Roman wall, which were held together both by the regularity of the design and by that peculiarly powerful Roman cement, so the various parts of the Roman realm were bonded into a massive, monolithic entity by physical, organizational, and psychological controls.
The physical bonds included the network of military garrisons, which were stationed in every province, and the network of stone-built roads that linked the provinces with Rome.
The organizational bonds were based on the common principles of law and administration and on the universal army of officials who enforced common standards of conduct.
The psychological controls were built on fear and punishment  on the absolute certainty that anyone or anything that threatened the authority of Rome would be utterly destroyed.
The source of Roman obsession with unity and cohesion may well have lain in the pattern of Rome  s early development.
Of course, the contrast is not quite so stark: in Alexander the Great the Greeks had found the greatest territorial conqueror of all time; and the Romans, once they moved outside Italy, did not fail to learn the lessons of sea power.
The key to the Greek world lay in its high-powered ships; the key to Roman power lay in its marching legions.
The Greeks were wedded to the sea; the Romans, to the land.
As always, there are the power worshippers, especially among historians, who are predisposed to admire whatever is strong, who feel more attracted to the might of Rome than to the subtlety of Greece.
Had the Greeks held novelty in such disdain as we,   asked Horace in his epistle,   what work of ancient date would now exist?  
In literature, Greek writers were consciously used as models by their Latin successors.
It was no accident that many leading Roman soldiers and statesmen were writers of high caliber.
Agriculture seems to have reached these people from the Near East, since the first domesticated crops were millets and sorghums whose origins are not African but west Asian.
Subsequently, other crops, such as bananas, were introduced from Southeast Asia.
Cattle were introduced from Asia, as probably were domestic sheep and goats.
Horses were apparently introduced by the Hyksos invaders of Egypt (1780-1560 B.C.)
Rock paintings in the Sahara indicate that horses and chariots were used to traverse the desert and that by 300-200 B.C., there were trade routes across the Sahara.
Horses were adopted by peoples of the West African savannah, and later their powerful cavalry forces allowed them to carve out large empires.
Iron came from West Asia, although its routes of diffusion were somewhat different than those of agriculture.
Iron represented power.
In West Africa the blacksmith who made tools and  weapons had an important place in society, often with special religious powers and functions.
Iron hoes, which made the land more productive, and iron weapons, which made the warrior more powerful, had symbolic meaning in a number of West Africa societies.
Those who knew the secrets of making iron gained ritual and sometimes political power.
Why and how these people spread out into central and southern Africa remains a mystery, but archaeologists believe that their iron weapons allowed them to conquer their hunting-gathering opponents, who still used stone implements.
At its height, between about A.D. 150 and 700, it probably had a population of more than 125,000 people and covered at least 20 square kilometers.
Clearly, much planning and central control were involved in the expansion and ordering of this great metropolis.
With Cuicuilco eliminated as a potential rival, any one of a number of relatively modest towns might have emerged as a leading economic and political power in Central Mexico.
The hard volcanic stone was a resource that had been in great demand for many years, at least since the rise of the Olmecs (a people who flourished between 1200 and 400 B.C.
Long-distance trade in obsidian probably gave the elite residents of Teotihuac  n access to a wide variety of exotic good, as well as a relatively prosperous life.
All this led to increased wealth, which in turn would attract more immigrants to Teotihuac  n. The growing power of the elite, who controlled the economy, would give them the means to physically coerce people to move to Teotihuac  n and serve as additions to the labor force.
More irrigation works would have to be built to feed the growing population, and this resulted in more power and wealth for the elite.
Data from diverse sources, including geochemical evidence preserved in seafloor sediments, indicate that the Late Cretaceous climate was milder than today  s. The days were not too hot, nor the nights too cold.
The summers were not too warm, nor the winters too frigid.
It  s hard to understand why they would not be affected, whereas dinosaurs were left too crippled to cope, especially if, as some scientists believe, dinosaurs were warm-blooded.
Between the last layer of Cretaceous rock and the first layer of Cenozoic rock, there is often a thin layer of clay.
However, other reliable evidence suggests that the deposition of the boundary clay could not have taken one million years.
The onrushing water arising from these flash floods likely also formed the odd teardrop-shaped   islands   (resembling the miniature versions seen in the wet sand of our beaches at low tide) that have been found on the plains close to the ends of the outflow channels.
A 2003 Mars Global Surveyor image shows what mission specialists think may be a delta  a fan-shaped network of channels and sediments where a river once flowed into a larger body of water, in this case a lake filling a crater in the southern highlands.
However, more recent data imply that at least some parts of the planet did in fact experience long periods in the past during which liquid water existed on the surface.
The answer may be that virtually all the water on Mars is now locked in the permafrost layer under the surface, with more contained in the planet  s polar caps.
It has long been accepted that the Americas were colonized by a migration of peoples from Asia, slowly traveling across a land bridge called Beringia (now the Bering Strait between northeastern Asia and Alaska) during the last Ice Age.
It was this midcontinental corridor between two massive ice sheets Cthe Laurentide to the east and the Cordilleran to the west Cthat enabled the southward migration.
But belief in this ice-free corridor began to crumble when paleoecologist Glen MacDonald demonstrated that some of the most important radiocarbon dates used to support the existence of an ice-free corridor were incorrect.
Support is growing for the alternative theory that people using watercraft, possibly skin boats, moved southward from Beringia along the Gulf of Alaska and then southward along the Northwest coast of North America possibly as early as 16,000 years ago.
Until the early 1970s,most archaeologists did not consider the coast a possible migration route into the Americas because geologists originally believed that during the last Ice Age the entire Northwest Coast was covered by glacial ice.
It had been assumed that the ice extended westward from the Alaskan/Canadian mountains to the very edge of the continental shelf, the flat, submerged part of the continent that extends into the ocean.
This would have created a barrier of ice extending from the Alaska Peninsula, through the Gulf of Alaska and southward along the Northwest Coast of north America to what is today the state of Washington. 
He theorized that with the use of watercraft, people gradually colonized unglaciated refuges and areas along the continental shelf exposed by the lower sea level.
Fladmark  s hypothesis received additional support form from the fact that the greatest diversity in native American languages occurs along the west coast of the Americas, suggesting that this region has been settled the longest. 
Research now indicates that sizable areas of southeastern Alaska along the inner continental shelf were not covered by ice toward the end of the last Ice Age.
One study suggests that except for a 250-mile coastal area between southwestern British Columbia and Washington State, the Northwest Coast of North America was largely free of ice by approximately 16,000 years ago.
Vast areas along the coast may have been deglaciated beginning around 16,000 years ago, possibly providing a coastal corridor for the movement of plants, animals, and humans sometime between 13,000 and 14,000 years ago. 
The coastal hypothesis has gained increasing support in recent years because the remains of large land animals, such as caribou and brown bears, have been found in southeastern Alaska dating between 10,000 and 12,500 years ago.
It has been suggested that if the environment were capable of supporting breeding populations of bears, there would have been enough food resources to support humans.
Fladmark and other believe that the first human colonization of America occurred by boat along the Northwest Coast during the very late Ice Age, possibly as early as 14,000 years ago.
The most recent geologic evidence indicates that it may have been possible for people to colonize ice-free regions along the continental shelf that were still exposed by the lower sea level between13,000 and 14,000 years ago.
Because of the barrier of ice to the east, the Pacific Ocean to the west, and populated areas to the north, there may have been a greater impetus for people to move in a southerly direction.
Wildman and Niles were particularly interested in investigating the conditions under which reflection might flourish Ca subject on which there is little guidance in the literature.
They were concerned that many would be   drawn to these new, refreshing   conceptions of teaching only to find that the void between the abstractions and the realities of teacher reflection is too great to bridge.
The teachers were taken through a program of talking about teaching events, moving on to reflecting about specific issues in a supported, and later an independent, manner. 
They describe the initial understanding in the teachers with whom they were working as being   utilitarian    and not rich or detailed enough to drive systematic reflection.
The researchers estimate that the initial training of the teachers to view events objectively took between 20 and 30 hours, with the same number of hours again being required to practice the skills of reflection. 
Support and encouragement were also required to help teachers in the program cope with aspects of their professional life with which they were not comfortable.
Wildman and Niles make a summary comment:   Perhaps the most important thing we learned is the idea of the teacher-as-reflective-practitioner will not happen simply because it is a good or even compelling idea.   
Zeichner and Liston (1987) point out the inconsistency between the role of the teacher as a (reflective) professional decision maker and the more usual role of the teacher as a technician, putting into practice the ideas of theirs.
When the Hawaiian Islands emerged from the sea as volcanoes, starting about five million years ago, they were far removed from other landmasses.
Spores light enough to float on the breezes were carried thousands of miles from more ancient lands and deposited at random across the bare mountain flanks.
Lichens were probably the first successful flora.
Lichens helped to speed the decomposition of the hard rock surfaces, preparing a soft bed of soil that was abundantly supplied with minerals that had been carried in the molten rock from the bowels of Earth.
By force of sheer numbers, however, the mosses and ferns reached Hawaii, survived, and multiplied.
Many millions of years after ferns evolved (but long before the Hawaiian Islands were born from the sea), another kind of flora evolved on Earth: the seed-bearing plants.
In some angiosperms the seeds are equipped with gossamer wings, like the dandelion and milkweed seeds.
By means of these seeds, plants spread more widely to new locations, even to isolated islands like the Hawaiian archipelago, which lies more than 2,000 miles west of California and 3,500 miles east of Japan.
The seeds of grasses, flowers, and blooming trees made the long trips to these islands.
The function and status of ceramics in China varied from dynasty to dynasty, so they may be utilitarian, burial, trade-collectors', or even ritual objects, according to their quality and the era in which they were made.
In addition, there was an important group of sculptures made for religious use, the majority of which were produced in earthenware.
The earliest ceramics were fired to earthenware temperatures, but as early as the fifteenth century B.C., high-temperature stonewares were being made with glazed surfaces.
During the Six Dynasties period (AD 265-589), kilns in north China were producing high-fired ceramics of good quality.
Ceramic products also include lead-glazed tomb models of the Han dynasty, three-color lead-glazed vessels and figures of the Tang dynasty, and Ming three-color temple ornaments, in which the motifs were outlined in a raised trail of slip  as well as the many burial ceramics produced in imitation of vessels made in materials of higher intrinsic value.
Trade between the West and the settled and prosperous Chinese dynasties introduced new forms and different technologies.
So admired were these pieces that they encouraged the development of earthenware made in imitation of porcelain and instigated research into the method of their manufacture.
Just as painted designs on Greek pots may seem today to be purely decorative, whereas in fact they were carefully and precisely worked out so that at the time, their meaning was clear, so it is with Chinese pots.
To twentieth-century eyes, Chinese pottery may appear merely decorative, yet to the Chinese the form of each object and its adornment had meaning and significance.
The dragon represented the emperor, and the phoenix, the empress; the pomegranate indicated fertility, and a pair of fish, happiness; mandarin ducks stood for wedded bliss; the pine tree, peach, and crane are emblems of long life; and fish leaping from waves indicated success in the civil service examinations.
Only when European decorative themes were introduced did these meanings become obscured or even lost.
From early times pots were used in both religious and secular contexts.
What we do know is that as we include longer time intervals, the record shows increasing evidence of slow swings in climate between different regimes.
Equally striking, however, is the relative stability of the climate in the past 10,000 years (the Holocene period).
These include the chaotic fluctuations of the atmosphere, the slower but equally erratic behavior of the oceans, changes in the land surfaces, and the extent of ice and snow.
Thus we need to be able to include these in our deliberations.
Some current analyses conclude that volcanoes and solar activity explain quite a considerable amount of the observed variability in the period from the seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries, but that they cannot be invoked to explain the rapid warming in recent decades.
Among the key factors behind this growth were increased agricultural productivity and an expansion of trade.
During the sixteenth century, farmers brought more land into cultivation at the expense of forests and fens (low-lying wetlands).
Such villages, however, generally lay in regions of relatively advanced agricultural production, permitting not only the survival of peasants but also the accumulation of an agricultural surplus for investment.
Population growth generated an expansion of small-scale manufacturing, particularly of handicrafts, textiles, and metal production in England, Flanders, parts of northern Italy, the southwestern German states, and parts of Spain.
Only iron smelting and mining required marshaling a significant amount of capital (wealth invested to create more wealth).
Bills of exchange, which had their origins in medieval Italy, were promissory notes (written promises to pay a specified amount of money by a certain date) that could be sold to third parties.
At mid-century, an Antwerp financier only slightly exaggerated when he claimed,   0ne can no more trade without bills of exchange than sail without water."
Not until the eighteenth century, however, did such banks as the Bank of Amsterdam and the Bank of England begin to provide capital for business investment.
Moreover an increased credit supply was generated by investments and loans by bankers and wealthy merchants to states and by joint-stock partnerships  an English innovation (the first major company began in 1600).
Unlike short-term financial cooperation between investors for a single commercial undertaking, joint-stock companies provided permanent funding of capital by drawing on the investments of merchants and other investors who purchased shares in the company.
Without this knowledge we can appreciate only the formal content of Egyptian art, and we will fail to understand why it was produced or the concepts that shaped it and caused it to adopt its distinctive forms.
The answer to such questions has nothing to do with a lack of skill or imagination on the part of Egyptian artists and everything to do with the purposes for which they were producing their art. 
When such statues are viewed in isolation, out of their original context and without knowledge of their function, it is easy to criticize them for their rigid attitudes that remained unchanged for three thousand years.
Frontality is, however, directly related to the functions of Egyptian statuary and the contexts in which the statues were set up.
Statues were created not for their decorative effect but to play a primary role in the cults of the gods, the king, and the dead.
They were designed to be put in places where these beings could manifest themselves in order to be the recipients of ritual actions.
Very often such statues were enclosed in rectangular shrines or wall niches whose only opening was at the front, making it natural for the statue to display frontality.
Other statues were designed to be placed within an architectural setting, for instance, in front of the monumental entrance gateways to temples known as pylons, or in pillared courts, where they would be placed against or between pillars: their frontality worked perfectly within the architectural context.
Statues were normally made of stone, wood, or metal.
Stone statues were worked from single rectangular blocks of material and retained the compactness of the original shape.
The stone between the arms and the body and between the legs in standing figures or the legs and the seat in seated ones was not normally cut away.
From a practical aspect this protected the figures against breakage and psychologically gives the images a sense of strength and power, usually enhanced by a supporting back pillar.
By contrast, wooden statues were carved from several pieces of wood that were pegged together to form the finished work, and metal statues were either made by wrapping sheet metal around a wooden core or cast by the lost wax process.
The question perplexed people for years, until, in the 1950s, a German scientist named Gustave Kramer provided some answers and, in the process, raised new questions.
Kramer surmised, therefore, that they were orienting according to the position of the Sun.
The boxes were stationary, and the one containing food was always at the same point of the compass.
However, its position with respect to the surroundings could be changed by revolving either the inner cage containing the birds or the outer walls, which served as the background.
As long as the birds could see the Sun, no matter how their surroundings were altered, they went directly to the correct food box.
Whether the box appeared in front of the right wall or the left wall, they showed no signs of confusion.
On overcast days, however, the birds were disoriented and had trouble locating their food box.
Apparently, the birds were assuming that the "Sun" they saw was moving at that rate.
When the real Sun was visible, however, the birds maintained a constant direction as it moved across the sky.
In other words, they were able to compensate for the Sun's movement.
To test the idea, caged night-migrating birds were placed on the floor of a planetarium during their migratory period.
The results clearly indicated that the birds were orienting according to the stars.
In fact, when tapes of begging tree swallows were played at an artificial swallow nest containing an egg, the egg in that   noisy   nest was taken or destroyed by predators before the egg in a nearby quiet nest in 29 of 37 trials.
The eggs   advertised   by the tree-nesters' begging calls were found bitten significantly more often than the eggs associated with the ground-nesters' calls.
The answer lies apparently not in the increased energy costs of exaggerated begging  such energy costs are small relative to the potential gain in calories  but rather in the damage that any successful cheater would do to its siblings, which share genes with one another.
Therefore, a begging nestling that secures food at the expense of its siblings might actually leave behind fewer copies of its genes overall than it might otherwise.
One also has to make the assumption that hands were stenciled palm downward  a left hand stenciled palm upward might of course look as if it were a right hand.
have survived; the signs of rubbing on their left side indicate that their users were right-handed.
Occasionally one can determine whether stone tools were used in the right hand or the left, and it is even possible to assess how far back this feature can be traced.
At seven sites he found that 57 percent of the flakes were right-oriented, and 43 percent left, a pattern almost identical to that produced today.
About 90 percent of modern humans are right-handed: we are the only mammal with a preferential use of one hand.
In nearly every language, however the words are phrased, the most basic division in cinema history lies between films that are mute and films that speak.
Nearly every movie theater, however modest, had a piano or organ to provide musical accompaniment to silent pictures.
Beyond that, the triumph of recorded sound has overshadowed the rich diversity of technological and aesthetic experiments with the visual image that were going forward simultaneously in the 1920s.
New color processes, larger or differently shaped screen sizes, multiple-screen projections, even television, were among the developments invented or tried out during the period, sometimes with startling success.
The high costs of converting to sound and the early limitations of sound technology were among the factors that suppressed innovations or retarded advancement in these other areas.
Though it may be difficult to imagine from a later perspective, a strain of critical opinion in the 1920s predicted that sound film would be a technical novelty that would soon fade from sight, just as had many previous attempts, dating well back before the First World War, to link images with recorded sound.
These critics were making a common assumption  that the technological inadequacies of earlier efforts (poor synchronization, weak sound amplification, fragile sound recordings) would invariably occur again.
To be sure, their evaluation of the technical flaws in 1920s sound experiments was not so far off the mark, yet they neglected to take into account important new forces in the motion picture field that, in a sense, would not take no for an answer.
These forces were the rapidly expanding electronics and telecommunications companies that were developing and linking telephone and wireless technologies in the 1920s.
They were interested in all forms of sound technology and all potential avenues for commercial exploitation.
Their competition and collaboration were creating the broadcasting industry in the United States, beginning with the introduction of commercial radio programming in the early 1920s.
In 1929 the United States motion picture industry released more than 300 sound films  a rough figure, since a number were silent films with music tracks, or films prepared in dual versions, to take account of the many cinemas not yet wired for sound.
In Europe it took a little longer, mainly because there were more small producers for whom the costs of sound were prohibitive, and in other parts of the world problems with rights or access to equipment delayed the shift to sound production for a few more years (though cinemas in major cities may have been wired in order to play foreign sound films).
For centuries, the annual floods of the Nile, Tigris, and Euphrates, for example, have brought fertile silts and water to the inhabitants of their lower valleys.
In recent years, groundwater has become an increasingly important source of freshwater for desert dwellers.
It is known, however, that the distribution of groundwater is uneven, and that much of it lies at great depths.
Groundwater is stored in the pore spaces and joints of rocks and unconsolidated (unsolidified) sediments or in the openings widened through fractures and weathering.
Most shallow aquifers in sand and gravel deposits produce lower yields, but they can be rapidly recharged.
Life places us in a complex web of relationships with other people.
Expressive ties are social links formed when we emotionally invest ourselves in and commit ourselves to other people.
Through association with people who are meaningful to us, we achieve a sense of security, love, acceptance, companionship, and personal worth.
Instrumental ties are social links formed when we cooperate with other people to achieve some goal.
More often, we simply cooperate with others to reach some end without endowing the relationship with any larger significance.
Sociologists have built on the distinction between expressive and instrumental ties to distinguish between two types of groups: primary and secondary.
Expressive ties predominate in primary groups; we view the people as ends in themselves and valuable in their own right.
Instrumental ties predominate in secondary groups; we perceive people as means to ends rather than as ends in their own right.
In small groups we have a better chance to initiate contact and establish rapport with them.
And third, the probability that we will develop primary group bonds increases as we have frequent and continuous contact.
Our ties with people often deepen as we interact with them across time and gradually evolve interlocking habits and interests.
Such groups are the breeding grounds in which we acquire the norms and values that equip us for social life.
Sociologists view primary groups as bridges between individuals and the larger society because they transmit, mediate, and interpret a society's cultural patterns and provide the sense of oneness so critical for social solidarity.
Second, primary groups are fundamental because they provide the settings in which we meet most of our personal needs.
Within them, we experience companionship, love, security, and an overall sense of well-being.
Third, primary groups are fundamental because they serve as powerful instruments for social control.
For instance, some social groups employ shunning (a person can remain in the community, but others are forbidden to interact with the person) as a device to bring into line individuals whose behavior goes beyond that allowed by the particular group.
The relations between animal activity and these periods, particularly for the daily rhythms, have been of such interest and importance that a huge amount of work has been done on them and the special research field of chronobiology has emerged.
Normally, the constantly changing levels of an animal's activity  sleeping, feeding, moving, reproducing, metabolizing, and producing enzymes and hormones, for example  are well coordinated with environmental rhythms, but the key question is whether the animal's schedule is driven by external cues, such as sunrise or sunset, or is instead dependent somehow on internal timers that themselves generate the observed biological rhythms.
For instance, apparently normal daily periods of biological activity were maintained for about a week by the fungus Neurospora when it was intentionally isolated from all geophysical timing cues while orbiting in a space shuttle.
Horseshoe crabs kept in the dark continuously for a year were found to maintain a persistent rhythm of brain activity that similarly adapts their eyes on a daily schedule for bright or for weak light.
Like almost all daily cycles of animals deprived of environmental cues, those measured for the horseshoe crabs in these conditions were not exactly 24 hours.
Further evidence for persistent internal rhythms appears when the usual external cycles are shifted  either experimentally or by rapid east-west travel over great distances.
The disorienting effects of this mismatch between external time cues and internal schedules may persist, like our jet lag, for several days or weeks until certain cues such as the daylight/darkness cycle reset the organism's clock to synchronize with the daily rhythm of the new environment.
The difference between the two measures provides the researcher with an indication of the level and duration of the response to the stimulus.
Such techniques, however, have limitations.
Precise measurements can be made of the length and frequency of the infant's attention between two stimuli.
Increases in nonnutritive sucking were first used as an assessment measure by researchers in 1969.
As stimuli were presented, changes in the infant's sucking behavior were recorded.
Increases in the number of sucks were used as an indicator of the infant's attention to or preference for a given visual display.
Each of the preceding techniques provides the researcher with evidence that the infant can detect or discriminate between stimuli.
With these sophisticated observational assessment and electro-physiological measures, we know that the neonate of only a few days is far more perceptive than previously suspected.
However, these measures are only "indirect" indicators of the infant's perceptual abilities.
However, research has shown that children often have difficulty understanding disclaimers: children may interpret the phrase "when part of a nutritionally balanced breakfast" to mean that the cereal is required as a necessary part of a balanced breakfast.
The author George Comstock suggested that less than a quarter of children between the ages of six and eight years old understood standard disclaimers used in many toy advertisements and that disclaimers are more readily comprehended when presented in both audio and visual formats.
Generally, there is uncertainty as to whether very young children can distinguish between fantasy and reality in advertising.
The psychologist Dale Kunkel showed that the practice of host selling reduced children's ability to distinguish between advertising and program material.
This finding was even more marked for heavy viewers of television.
A study of children in Hong Kong, however, found that the presence of celebrities in advertisements could negatively affect the children's perceptions of a product if the children did not like the celebrity in question.
To understand the ancient Mayan people who lived in the area that is today southern Mexico and Central America and the ecological difficulties they faced, one must first consider their environment, which we think of as "jungle" or "tropical rainforest."
Properly speaking, tropical rainforests grow in high-rainfall equatorial areas that remain wet or humid all year round.
If one focuses on the wet months, one calls the Maya homeland a "seasonal tropical forest"; if one focuses on the dry months, one could instead describe it as a "seasonal desert."
But rainfall in the Maya homeland is unpredictably variable between years; some recent years have had three or four times more rain than other years.
The ancient Maya were presumably more experienced and did better, but nevertheless they too must have faced risks of crop failures from droughts and hurricanes.
Although southern Maya areas received more rainfall than northern areas, problems of water were paradoxically more severe in the wet south.
While that made things hard for ancient Maya living in the south, it has also made things hard for modern archaeologists who have difficulty understanding why ancient droughts caused bigger problems in the wet south than in the dry north.
In the northern peninsula the elevation is sufficiently low that the ancient Maya were able to reach the water table at deep sinkholes called cenotes, or at deep caves.
In low-elevation north coastal areas without sinkholes, the Maya would have been able to get down to the water table by digging wells up to 75 feet (22 meters) deep.
But much of the south lies too high above the water table for cenotes or wells to reach down to it.
It initially surprises us that many of their cities were not built next to the rivers but instead on high terrain in rolling uplands.
Archaeological evidence suggests that by 3000 B.C., and perhaps even earlier, there had emerged on the steppes of Inner Eurasia the distinctive types of pastoralism that were to dominate the region's history for several millennia.
However, the larger the terrain used to support a group, the harder it is to exploit that terrain while remaining in one place.
A modern Turkic nomad interviewed by Cribb commented: "The more animals you have, the farther you have to move."
By the late fourth millennium B.C., there is already evidence of large culture zones reaching from Eastern Europe to the western borders of Mongolia.
Such rules limit variations in accumulated material goods between pastoralist households (though they may also encourage a taste for portable goods of high value such as silks or jewelry).
Inequalities of wealth and rank certainly exist, and have probably existed in most pastoralist societies, but except in periods of military conquest, they are normally too slight to generate the stable, hereditary hierarchies that are usually implied by the use of the term class.
Inequalities of gender have also existed in pastoralist societies, but they seem to have been softened by the absence of steep hierarchies of wealth in most communities, and also by the requirement that women acquire most of the skills of men, including, often, their military skills.
Nonetheless, an adult leatherback can maintain a body temperature of between 25 and 26  C (77-79  F) in seawater that is only 8  C (46.4  F).
Leatherbacks apparently do not generate internal heat the way we do, or the way birds do, as a by-product of cellular metabolism.
However, most of its internal heat comes from the action of its muscles.
The bigger the animal is, the lower its surface-to-volume ratio; for every ounce of body mass, there is proportionately less surface through which heat can escape.
The problem is that as blood flows through the turtle  s flippers, it risks losing enough heat to lower the animal  s central body temperature when it returns.
Biological hypotheses include ecological changes brought about by the evolution of cooperation between insects and flowering plants or of bottom-feeding predators in the oceans.
The force of collision spewed large amounts of debris into the atmosphere, darkening the skies for several years before the finer particles settled.
A search of sedimentary deposits that span the boundary between the Cretaceous and Tertiary periods shows that there is a dramatic increase in the abundance of iridium briefly and precisely at this boundary.
With further melting, refreezing, and increased weight from newer snowfall above, the snow reaches a granular recrystallized stage intermediate between flakes and ice known as firn.
When the ice is thick enough, usually over 30 meters, the weight of the snow and firn will cause the ice crystals toward the bottom to become plastic and to flow outward or downward from the area of snow accumulation.
Glaciers are sometimes classified by temperature as faster-flowing temperate glaciers or as slower-flowing polar glaciers.
Two percent may be a deceiving figure, however, since over 80 percent of the world  s freshwater is locked up as ice in glaciers, with the majority of it in Antarctica.
The total amount of ice is even more awesome if we estimate the water released upon the hypothetical melting of the world  s glaciers.
In the meantime, however, this ice is not static.
Records show merchant caravans and trading posts set up by the Sumerians in the surrounding mountains and deserts of Persia and Arabia, where they traded grain for raw materials, such as timber and stones, as well as for metals and gems.
In these shops differences of rank were blurred as artisans and masters labored side by side in the same modest establishment, were usually members of the same guild and religious sect, lived in the same neighborhoods, and often had assumed (or real) kinship relationships.
These were essentially professional associations that provided for the mutual aid and protection of their members, and allowed for the maintenance of professional standards.
The growth of independent guilds was furthered by the fact that surplus was not a result of domestic craft production but resulted primarily from international trading; the government left working people to govern themselves, much as shepherds of tribal confederacies were left alone by their leaders.
In the multiplicity of small-scale local egalitarian or quasi-egalitarian organizations for fellowship, worship, and production that flourished in this laissez-faire environment, individuals could interact with one another within a community of harmony and ideological equality, following their own popularly elected leaders and governing themselves by shared consensus while minimizing distinctions of wealth and power.
As among tribespeople, personal relationships and a careful weighing of character have always been crucial in a mercantile economy with little regulation, where one's word is one's bond and where informal ties of trust cement together an international trade network.
Dependence on long-distance trade also meant that the great empires of the Middle East were built both literally and figuratively on shifting sand.
The central state, though often very rich and very populous, was intrinsically fragile, since the development of new international trade routes could undermine the monetary base and erode state power, as occurred when European seafarers circumvented Middle Eastern merchants after Vasco da Gama's voyage around Africa in the late fifteenth century opened up a southern route.
The ecology of the region also permitted armed predators to prowl the surrounding barrens, which were almost impossible for a state to control.
It is a monumental scientific achievement, and its development illustrates the essential interplay between observation, prediction, and testing required for scientific progress.
In the 1800's scientists were searching for new elements.
Various proposals were put forth to arrange the elements into groups based on similarities in chemical and physical properties.
The next step was to recognize a connection between group properties (physical or chemical similarities) and atomic mass (the measured mass of an individual atom of an element).
When the elements known at the time were ordered by increasing atomic mass, it was found that successive elements belonged to different chemical groups and that the order of the groups in this sequence was fixed and repeated itself at regular intervals.
Thus when the series of elements was written so as to begin a new horizontal row with each alkali metal, elements of the same groups were automatically assembled in vertical columns in a periodic table of the elements.
Yet both chemists were sufficiently farsighted to leave gaps where their analyses of periodic physical and chemical properties indicated that new elements should be located.
Indium, for example, had previously been assigned an atomic mass between those of arsenic and selenium.
Because there is no space in the periodic table between these two elements, Mendeleyev suggested that the atomic mass of indium be changed to a completely different value, where it would fill an empty space between cadmium and tin.
Mendeleyev went further than Meyer in another respect: he predicted the properties of six elements yet to be discovered.
The close correspondence between the observed properties of gallium and Mendeleyev  s predictions for eka-aluminum lent strong support to the periodic law.
Rayleigh and Ramsay postulated the existence of a new group of elements, and in 1898 other members of the series (neon, krypton, and xenon) were isolated.
The most obvious difference between the terrestrial and the Jovian planets is their size.
There appears to be a correlation between the positions of these planets and their sizes.
However, unlike Jupiter, the terrestrial planets today are nearly void of light gases and ices.
The explanation may be that the terrestrial planets were once much larger and richer in these materials but eventually lost them because of these bodies' relative closeness to the Sun, which meant that their temperatures were relatively high.
In the fourteenth century, a number of political developments cut Europe's overland trade routes to southern and eastern Asia, with which Europe had had important and highly profitable commercial ties since the twelfth century.
Widely reported, if somewhat distrusted, accounts by figures like the famous traveler from Venice, Marco Polo, of the willingness of people in China to trade with Europeans and of the immensity of the wealth to be gained by such contact made the idea irresistible.
The chief problem was technological: How were the Europeans to reach the East?
Europe's maritime tradition had developed in the context of easily navigable seas  the Mediterranean, the Baltic, and, to a lesser extent, the North Sea between England and the Continent  not of vast oceans.
New types of ships were needed, new methods of finding one's way, new techniques for financing so vast a scheme.
The sheer scale of the investment it took to begin commercial expansion at sea reflects the immensity of the profits that such East-West trade could create Spices were the most sought-after commodities.
Spices not only dramatically improved the taste of the European diet but also were used to manufacture perfumes and certain medicines.
The largest galleys had as many as 50 oarsmen Since they had relatively shallow hulls, they were unstable when driven by sail or when on rough water: hence they were unsuitable for the voyage to the East.
Also beginning in the thirteenth century, there were new maps refined by precise calculations and the reports of sailors that made it possible to trace one's path with reasonable accuracy.
Certain institutional and practical norms had become established as well.     
A maritime code known as the Consulate of the Sea, which originated in the western Mediterranean region in the fourteenth century, won acceptance by a majority of sea goers as the normative code for maritime conduct; it defined such matters as the authority of a ship's officers, protocols of command, pay structures, the rights of sailors, and the rules of engagement when ships met one another on the sea-lanes.
Thus by about 1400 the key elements were in place to enable Europe to begin its seaward adventure.
This may require moving to different parts of the forest at different times of the day or under different weather conditions, or it may be achieved by changing color according to the changing light conditions.
In the green-to-yellow lighting conditions of the lowest levels of the forest, yellow and green would be the brightest colors, but when an animal is signaling, these colors would not be very visible if the animal was sitting in an area with a yellowish or greenish background.
The best signal depends not only on its brightness but also on how well it contrasts with the background against which it must be seen.
The sounds made as each wing is opened carry extremely well over distance and advertise his presence widely.
A symbiotic relationship is an interaction between two or more species in which one species lives in or on another species.
The virus was less deadly to the offspring of surviving rabbits, however, and it caused less and less harm over the years.
Apparently, genotypes (the genetic make-up of an organism) in the rabbit population were selected that were better able to resist the parasite.
Legume plants and their nitrogen-fixing bacteria, and the interactions between flowering plants and their pollinators, are examples of mutualistic association.
In the second case, pollinators (insects, birds) obtain food from the flowering plant, and the plant has its pollen distributed and seeds dispersed much more efficiently than they would be if they were carried by the wind only.
The complex interplay of species in symbiotic relationships highlights an important point about communities: Their structure depends on a web of diverse connections among organisms.
While some European countries, such as England and Germany, began to industrialize in the eighteenth century, the Netherlands and the Scandinavian countries of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden developed later.
However, they industrialized rapidly in the second half of the century, especially in the last two or three decades.
In view of their later start and their lack of coal  undoubtedly the main reason they were not among the early industrializers  it is important to understand the sources of their success.
At the beginning of the nineteenth century, Denmark and Norway had fewer than 1 million people, while Sweden and the Netherlands had fewer than 2.5 million inhabitants.
All exhibited moderate growth rates in the course of the century (Denmark the highest and Sweden the lowest), but all more than doubled in population by 1900.
The Netherlands had one of the highest population densities in Europe, whereas Norway and Sweden had the lowest.
Denmark was in between but closer to the Netherlands.
Considering human capital as a characteristic of the population, however, all four countries were advantaged by the large percentages of their populations who could read and write.
In both 1850 and 1914, the Scandinavian countries had the highest literacy rates in Europe, or in the world, and the Netherlands was well above the European average.
All had immediate access to the sea, and this had important implications for a significant international resource, fish, as well as for cheap transport, merchant marines, and the shipbuilding industry.
Denmark also had an admirable commercial history, particularly with respect to traffic through the Sound (the strait separating Denmark and Sweden).
They were reasonably well governed, without notable corruption or grandiose state projects, although in all of them the government gave some aid to railways, and in Sweden the state built the main lines.
As small countries dependent on foreign markets, they followed a liberal trade policy in the main, though a protectionist movement developed in Sweden.
In Denmark and Sweden agricultural reforms took place gradually from the late eighteenth century through the first half of the nineteenth, resulting in a new class of peasant landowners with a definite market orientation.
The key factor in the success of these countries (along with high literacy, which contributed to it) was their ability to adapt to the international division of labor determined by the early industrializers and to stake out areas of specialization in international markets for which they were especially well suited.
This meant a great dependence on international commerce, which had notorious fluctuations; but it also meant high returns to those factors of production that were fortunate enough to be well placed in times of prosperity.
In Sweden exports accounted for 18 percent of the national income in 1870, and in 1913, 22 percent of a much larger national income.
In the early twentieth century, Denmark exported 63 percent of its agricultural production: butter, pork products, and eggs.
Unfortunately, the few scientific investigations of yawning have failed to find any connection between how often someone yawns and how much sleep they have had or how tired they are.
About the closest any research has come to supporting the tiredness theory is to confirm that adults yawn more often on weekdays than at weekends, and that school children yawn more frequently in their first year at primary school than they do in kindergarten.
However, similar changes occurred when the subjects were asked simply to open their mouths or to breathe deeply.
Volunteers were told to think about yawning while they breathed either normal air, pure oxygen, or an air mixture with an above-normal level of carbon dioxide.
It might be that yawning helps to clear out the lungs by periodically lowering the pressure in them.
It is almost certainly doing something significant in adults as well as in fetuses.
Volunteers wore wrist-mounted devices that automatically recorded their physical activity for up to two weeks: the volunteers also recorded their yawns by pressing a button on the device each time they yawned.
The data showed that yawning tended to occur about 15 minutes before a period of increased behavioral activity.
Yawning bore no relationship to sleep patterns, however.
The electrical discharge takes place when the attractive tension between a region of negatively charged particles and a region of positively charged particles becomes so great that the charged particles suddenly rush together.
The coming together of the oppositely charged particles neutralizes the electrical tension and releases a tremendous amount of energy, which we see as lightning.
The temperature at the center of the cloud is about -15   or lower.
At such temperatures, the collision between the ice pellets and the ice crystals causes electrical charges to shift so that the ice pellets acquire a negative charge and the ice crystals become positively charged.
Below this large, cold, negatively charged region, the cloud is warmer than -15  , and at these temperatures, collisions between ice crystals and falling ice pellets produce positively charged ice pellets that then populate a small region at the base of the cloud. 
However, as the storm cloud develops, the ground beneath the cloud becomes positively charged and lightning can take place in the form of an electrical discharge between the negative charge of the cloud and the positively charged ground.
Then a strong current of electrons follows that path from the cloud to the ground, and it is that current that illuminates the channel as the lightning we see.
The stream of positive particles that meets the surge of electrons from the cloud often arises from a tall pointed structure such as a metal flagpole or a tower.
Sometimes, however, a stream of electrons following an established channel is met by a positive stream making a new path up from the ground.
Assessing the impact of the army on the civilian population starts from the realization that the soldiers were always unevenly distributed across the country.
Areas rapidly incorporated into the empire were not long affected by the military.
Economic exchange was clearly very important as the Roman army brought with it very substantial spending power.
Some of these were certainly brought from long distances, but demands were inevitably placed on the local area.
Although goods could be requisitioned, they were usually paid for, and this probably stimulated changes in the local economy.
There was informal marriage with soldiers, who until AD 197 were not legally entitled to wed, and whole new communities grew up near the forts.
Such units recruited on an ad hoc (as needed) basis from the area in which they were stationed, and there was evidently large-scale recruitment within Britain.
The total numbers were at least 12,500 men up to the reign of the emperor Hadrian (A.D. 117-138), with a peak around A.D. 80.
Although a small proportion of the total population, this perhaps had a massive local impact when a large proportion of the young men were removed from an area.
Newly raised regiments were normally transferred to another province from whence it was unlikely that individual recruits would ever return.
Most units raised in Britain went elsewhere on the European continent, although one is recorded in Morocco.
By the later Roman period, frontier garrisons (groups of soldiers) were only rarely transferred, service in units became effectively hereditary, and forts were no longer populated or maintained at full strength.
The circumstances that had allowed natives to become Romanized also led the self-sustaining military community of the frontier area to become effectively British.
In the early twentieth century, the American ecologist Frederic Clements pointed out that a succession of plant communities would develop after a disturbance such as a volcanic eruption, heavy flood, or forest fire.
Even less fortunate was the extension of this type of thinking to include animals as well as plants.
Their major point was that the distribution of a given species was controlled by the habitat requirements of that species and that therefore the vegetation types were a simple consequence of the ecologies of individual plant species.
Gleason's arguments against climax and biome are largely valid against ecosystems as well.
For his research, Agassiz visited many places in the northern parts of Europe and North America, from the mountains of Scandinavia and New England to the rolling hills of the American Midwest.
The areas covered by this material were so vast that the ice that deposited it must have been a continental glacier larger than Greenland or Antarctica.
It soon became clear that there were multiple glacial ages during the Pleistocene, with warmer interglacial intervals between them.
As geologists mapped glacial deposits in the late nineteenth century, they became aware that there were several layers of drift, the lower ones corresponding to earlier ice ages.
Between the older layers of glacial material were well-developed soils containing fossils of warm-climate plants.
These soils were evidence that the glaciers retreated as the climate warmed.
By the early part of the twentieth century, scientists believed that four distinct glaciations had affected North America and Europe during the Pleistocene epoch. 
This idea was modified in the late twentieth century, when geologists and oceanographers examining oceanic sediment found fossil evidence of warming and cooling of the oceans.
The fossils buried in Pleistocene and earlier ocean sediments were of foraminifera  small, single-celled marine organisms that secrete shells of calcium carbonate, or calcite.
Isotopic analysis of shells allowed geologists to measure another glacial effect.
From this analysis of marine sediments, geologists have learned that there were many shorter, more regular cycles of glaciation and deglaciation than geologists had recognized from the glacial drift of the continents alone.
The story of the westward movement of population in the United States is, in the main, the story of the expansion of American agriculture  of the development of new areas for the raising of livestock and the cultivation of wheat, corn, tobacco, and cotton.
After 1815 improved transportation enabled more and more western farmers to escape a self-sufficient way of life and enter a national market economy.
During periods when commodity prices were high, the rate of westward migration increased spectacularly.
"Old America seemed to be breaking up and moving westward," observed an English visitor in 1817, during the first great wave of migration.
Whereas in 1810 only a seventh of the American people lived west of the Appalachian Mountains, by 1840 more than a third lived there.
Why were these hundreds of thousands of settlers  most of them farmers, some of them artisans  drawn away from the cleared fields and established cities and villages of the East?
Moreover, European society was relatively stratified; occupation and social status were inherited.
In American society, however, the class structure was less rigid; some people changed occupations easily and believed it was their duty to improve their social and economic position.
As a result, many Americans were an inveterately restless, rootless, and ambitious people.
Therefore, these social traits helped to produce the nomadic and daring settlers who kept pushing westward beyond the fringes of settlement.
In addition, there were other immigrants who migrated west in search of new homes, material success, and better lives.
The West had plenty of attractions: the alluvial river bottoms, the fecund soils of the rolling forest lands, the black loams of the prairies were tempting to New England farmers working their rocky, sterile land and to southeastern farmers plagued with soil depletion and erosion.
Western Farmers borrowed with the confident expectation that the expanding economy would keep farm prices high, thus making it easy to repay loans when they fell due.
Transportation was becoming less of a problem for those who wished to move west and for those who hand farm surpluses to send to market.
Prior to 1815, western farmers who did not live on navigable waterways were connected to them only by dirt roads and mountain trails.
The first step toward an improvement of western transportation was the construction of turnpikes.
Steamboats were not only faster but also transported upriver freight for about one tenth of what it had previously cost on hand-propelled keelboats.
After the canal went into operation, the cost per mile of transporting a ton of freight from Buffalo to New York City declined from nearly 20 cents to less than 1 cent.
Eventually, the western states diverted much of their produce from the rivers to the Erie Canal, a shorter route to eastern markets.
The climatic changes in southwestern Asia were more subtle, in that they involved shifts in mountain snow lines, rainfall patterns, and vegetation cover.
However, these same cycles of change had momentous impacts on the sparse human populations of the region.
Thanks to new environmental and archaeological discoveries, we now know something about this remarkable change in local life.
Pollen samples from freshwater lakes in Syria and elsewhere tell us forest cover expanded rapidly at the end of the Ice Age, for the southwestern Asian climate was still cooler and considerably wetter than today.
Many areas were richer in animal and plant species than they are now, making them highly favorable for human occupation.
Some local areas, like the Jordan River valley, the middle Euphrates valley, and some Zagros valleys, were more densely populated than elsewhere.
Thanks to extremely fine-grained excavation and extensive use of flotation methods (through which seeds are recovered from soil samples), we know a great deal about the foraging practices of the inhabitants of Abu Hureyra in Syria's Euphrates valley.
Abu Hureyra was founded about 9500B.C, a small village settlement of cramped pit dwellings (houses dug partially in the soil) with reed roofs supported by wooden uprights.
For the next 1,500 years, its inhabitants enjoyed a somewhat warmer and damper climate than today, living in a well-wooded steppe area where wild cereal grasses were abundant.
They were no longer a series of small bands but lived in a large community with more elaborate social organization, probably grouped into clans of people of common descent.
The flotation samples from the excavations allowed botanists to study shifts in plant-collecting habits as if they were looking through a telescope at a changing landscape.
However, as the climate dried up, the forests retreated from the vicinity of the settlement.
By 8200B.C., drought conditions were so severe that the people abandoned their long-established settlement, perhaps dispersing into smaller camps.
However, the chances of escaping complete destruction are vastly improved if the organism happens to have a mineralized skeleton and dies in a place where it can be quickly buried by sediment.
In many marine creatures, however, the skeleton is composed of a mineral variety of calcium carbonate called aragonite.
Their remains accumulated on the floor of the lake and were then covered by clay and silt.
By the late 1990s some 70 geothermal electric-generating plants were in operation in California, Utah, Nevada, and Hawaii, generating enough power to supply about a million people.
These waters present a disposal problem if they are not returned to the ground from which they were removed.
However, in many places (for example, California, Hawaii, the Philippines, Japan, Mexico, the rift valleys of Africa)the resource is potentially so large that its future will depend on the economics of production.
At present, we can make efficient use of only naturally occurring hot water or steam deposits.
Geothermal energy probably will not make large-scale contributions to the world energy budget until well into the twenty-first century, if ever.
How did it come about that farming developed independently in a number of world centers (the Southeast Asian mainland, Southwest Asia, Central America, lowland and highland South America, and equatorial Africa) at more or less the same time?
While hunter-gatherers always had the option of moving elsewhere when the resources were exhausted, this became more difficult with farming.
We know, however, that contemporary hunter-gatherer societies control their population in a variety of ways.
There were, however, fluctuations in the climatic conditions, with the consequences that wet conditions were followed by dry ones, so that the availability of plants and animals oscillated brusquely.
It could be argued, however, that these conditions are not sufficient to explain the origins of agriculture.
Once humans possessed such a mind, they were able to find an imaginative solution to a situation of severe economic crisis such as the farming dilemma described earlier.
Mithen proposes the existence of four mental elements to account for the emergence of farming: (1) the ability to develop tools that could be used intensively to harvest and process plant resources; (2) the tendency to use plants and animals as the medium to acquire social prestige and power; (3) the tendency to develop "social relationships" with animals structurally similar to those developed with people  specifically, the ability to think of animals as people (anthropomorphism) and of people as animals (totemism); and (4) the tendency to manipulate plants and animals.
However, it should be kept in mind that many societies that knew of agriculture more or less consciously avoided it.
How old were you?
Between ages three and four, children begin to give fairly lengthy and cohesive descriptions of events in their past.
When researchers had one year olds imitate an action sequence one year after they first saw it, there was correlation between the children's verbal skills at the time they first saw the event and their success on the later memory task.
However, even children with low verbal skills showed evidence of remembering the event; thus, memories may be facilitated by but are not dependent on those verbal skills.
The development of an understanding of the self becomes evident between the first and second years of life and shows rapid elaboration in subsequent years.
When parents talk with children about "what we did today" or "last week" or "last year," they guide the children's formation of a framework for talking about the past.
Once children become capable of answering such questions as "What does it mean to remember?"
Talking with parents about the past may enhance the development of the self-concept, for example, as well as help the child understand what it means to "remember."
Spartina alterniflora, known as cordgrass, is a deciduous, perennial flowering plant native to the Atlantic coast and the Gulf Coast of the United States.
It is the dominant native species of the lower salt marshes along these coasts, where it grows in the intertidal zone (the area covered by water some parts of the day and exposed others).
Nutrient-rich water is brought to the wetlands during each high tide, making a high rate of food production possible.
As the seaweed and marsh grass leaves die, bacteria break down the plant material, and insects, small shrimplike organisms, fiddler crabs, and marsh snails eat the decaying plant tissue, digest it, and excrete wastes high in nutrients.
Along the east coast Spartina is considered valuable for its ability to prevent erosion and marshland deterioration; it is also used for coastal restoration projects and the creation of new wetland sites.
Leaving its insect predators behind, the cordgrass has been spreading slowly and steadily along Washington  s tidal estuaries on the west coast, crowding out the native plants and drastically altering the landscape by trapping sediment.
Perceptions of the visible world were greatly altered by the invention of photography in the middle of the nineteenth century.
The realistic and naturalistic painters of the mid- and late-nineteenth century were all intently aware of photography  as a thing to use, to learn from, and react to.
The images produced by the camera obscura, a boxlike device that used a pinhole or lens to throw an image onto a ground-glass screen or a piece of white paper, were already familiar  the device had been much employed by topographical artists like the Italian painter Canaletto in his detailed views of the city of Venice.
Artists were fascinated by photography because it offered a way of examining the world in much greater detail.
They were also afraid of it, because it seemed likely to make their own efforts unnecessary.
Portraiture, once a luxury for the privileged few, was suddenly well within the reach of many more people.
Even those artists who were most dependent on photography became reluctant to admit that they made use of it, in case this compromised their professional standing.
Scientific experiments made by photographers such as Eadweard Muybridge (1830-1904) and Etienne-Jules Marey (1830-1904) demonstrated that the movements of both humans and animals differed widely from the way they had been traditionally represented in art.
Artists, often reluctantly, were forced to accept the evidence provided by the camera.
The new candid photography  unposed pictures that were made when the subjects were unaware that their pictures were being taken  confirmed these scientific results, and at the same time, thanks to the radical cropping (trimming) of images that the camera often imposed, suggested new compositional formats.
The accidental effects obtained by candid photographers were soon being copied by artists such as the French painter Degas.
Altogether, roughly two tons of meteorite fragments were recovered, all of which bear the name Allende for the location of the first discovery.
Individual specimens of Allende are covered with a black, glassy crust that formed when their exteriors melted as they were slowed by Earth's atmosphere.
When broken open, Allende stones are revealed to contain an assortment of small, distinctive objects, spherical or irregular in shape and embedded in a dark gray matrix (binding material), which were once constituents of the solar nebula  the interstellar cloud of gas and dust out of which our solar system was formed.
These seeds are actually chondrules: millimeter-sized melted droplets of silicate material that were cooled into spheres of glass and crystal.
A few chondrules contain grains that survived the melting event, so these enigmatic chondrules must have formed when compact masses of nebular dust were fused at high temperatures and then cooled before these surviving grains could melt.
It seems very unlikely that large portions of the nebula were heated to such extreme temperatures, and huge nebula areas could not possibly have lost heat so fast.
Chondrules must have been melted in small pockets of the nebula that were able to lose heat rapidly.
However, studies of the textures of inclusions reveal that the order in which the minerals appeared in the inclusions varies from inclusion to inclusion, and often does not match the theoretical condensation sequence for those metals.
At one time it was thought that these matrix grains might be pristine nebular dust, the sort of stuff from which chondrules and inclusions were made.
However, detailed studies of the chondrite matrix suggest that much of it, too, has been formed by condensation or melting in the nebula, although minute amounts of surviving interstellar dust are mixed with the processed materials.
To compare the compositions of a meteorite and the Sun, it is necessary that we use ratios of elements rather than simply the abundances of atoms.
Since practically all the solar system's mass resides in the Sun, this similarity in chemistry means that chondrites have average solar system composition, except for the most volatile elements; they are truly lumps of nebular matter, probably similar in composition to the matter from which planets were assembled.
But an automobile produces enough heat to warm an average house in winter, and if a house were perfectly insulated, one adult could also produce more than enough heat to warm it.
But in the countryside materials have a significantly lower heat capacity because a vegetative blanket prevents heat from easily flowing into and out of the ground.
When a heat island is well developed, variations can be extreme; in winter, busy streets in cities can be 1.7   warmer than the side streets.
Areas near traffic lights can be similarly warmer than the areas between them because of the effect of cars standing in traffic instead of moving.
The maximum differences in temperature between neighboring urban and rural environments is called the heat-island intensity for that region.
Thus, city surfaces, as well as the air above them, tend to be drier between episodes of rain; with little water available for the cooling process of evaporation, relative humidities are usually lower.
Dutch agriculture was modernized and commercialized new crops and agricultural techniques raised levels of production so that they were in line with market demands, and cheap grain was imported annually from the Baltic region in large quantities.
The peasants specialized in livestock husbandry and dairy farming as well as in cultivating industrial crops and fodder crops: flax, madder, and rape were grown, as were tobacco, hops, and turnips.
These products were bought mostly by urban businesses.
In the sixteenth century, fruit and vegetables were to be found only in gardens belonging to wealthy people.
The produce was then transported by water to markets in the cities, where the consumption of fruit and vegetables was no longer restricted to the wealthy.
As the demand for agricultural produce from both consumers and industry increased, agricultural land became more valuable and people tried to work the available land more intensively and to reclaim more land from wetlands and lakes.
Forty-three windmills powered the drainage pumps so that they were able to lease the reclamation to farmers as early as 1612, with the investors receiving annual leasing payments at an interest rate of 17 percent.
Land reclamation continued, and between 1590 and 1665, almost 100,000 hectares were reclaimed from the wetland areas of Holland, Zeeland, and Friesland.
However, land reclamation decreased significantly after the middle of the seventeenth century because the price of agricultural products began to fall, making land reclamation far less profitable in the second part of the century. 
However, what is astonishing about this is not that Dutch agriculture was affected by critical phenomena such as a decrease in sales and production, but the fact that the crisis appeared only relatively late in Dutch agriculture.
Dutch peasants were able to remain unaffected by this crisis for a long time because they had specialized in dairy farming industrial crops, and horticulture.
However, toward the end of the seventeenth century, they too were overtaken by the general agricultural crisis.
In the latter decades of the twentieth century there were intensified efforts to understand and record the abundance of Australian rock art.
Second, what is its stylistic organization and is it possible to discern a sequence or a pattern of development between styles?
Currently, reliable scientific evidence dates the earliest creation of art on rock surfaces in Australia to somewhere between 30,000 and 50,000 years ago.
In order to create a sense of structure to this picture, researchers have relied on a distinction that still underlies the forms of much indigenous visual culture  a distinction between geometric and figurative elements.
Furthermore, the designs were covered with   desert varnish,   a glaze that develops on rock surfaces over thousands of years of exposure to the elements.
In the 1970s when the study of Australian archaeology was in an exciting phase of development, with the great antiquity of rock art becoming clear, Lesley Maynard, the archaeologist who coined the phrase   Panaramitee style,   suggested that a sequence could be determined for Australian rock art, in which a geometric style gave way to a simple figurative style (outlines of figures and animals), followed by a range of complex figurative styles that, unlike the pan-Australian geometric tradition tended to much greater regional diversity.
While accepting that this sequence fits the archaeological profile of those sites, which were occupied continuously over many thousands of years a number of writers have warned that the underlying assumption of such a sequence  a development from the simple and the geometric to the complex and naturalistic  obscures the cultural continuities in Aboriginal Australia, in which geometric symbolism remains fundamentally important.
And has not twentieth-century art shown that naturalism does not necessarily follow abstraction in some kind of predetermine sequence?
Then exchanges with the atmosphere are calculated by finding the difference between the gains from rain, as measured (rather roughly) by rain gauges, and the losses by evaporation, measured with models that correct for the other sources of water loss.
Changes in lake level not explained by river flows plus exchanges with the atmosphere must be due to the net difference between what seeps into the lake from the groundwater and what leaks into the groundwater.
The residence time is an average; the time spent in the lake by a given molecule (if we could follow its fate) would depend on the route it took: it might flow through as part of the fastest, most direct current, or it might circle in a backwater for an indefinitely long time.
Lake Erie  s is the lowest: although its area is larger than Lake Ontario   s, its volume is less than one-third as great because it is so   shallow-less than 20 meters on average.
is dramatically affecting the residence times of some lakes in northwestern Ontario, Canada.
Yet because of the physics of lying down, the stomach applies weight against the diaphragm and makes it more difficult for the diaphragm to do its job.
However, there are many other changes that affect respiration when asleep.
First, there may be a brief cessation or reduction of breathing when falling asleep as the sleeper waxes and wanes between sleep and wakefulness and their differing control mechanisms.
Also there is a regular cycle of change in resistance between the two sides of the nose.
The amount of air exchanged is even lower in REM than NREM because, although breathing is more rapid in REM, it is also more irregular, with brief episodes of shallow breathing or absence of breathing.
In the Mesa Verde area of the ancient North American Southwest, living patterns changed in the thirteenth century, with large numbers of people moving into large communal dwellings called pueblos, often constructed at the edges of canyons, especially on the sides of cliffs.
For people in cliff dwellings, hauling water, wood, and food to their homes was a major chore.
The stress on local resources, especially in the firewood needed for daily cooking and warmth, was particularly intense, and conditions in aggregated pueblos were not very hygienic.
Some scholars expand on this idea by emphasizing a corresponding need for arable land to feed growing numbers of people: construction of small dams, reservoirs, terraces, and field houses indicates  that  farmers  were  intensifying  their  efforts  during  the  1200s. 
Although the height of the Little Ice Age was still around the corner, some evidence suggests that temperatures were falling during the thirteenth century.
The environmental changes associated with this transition are not fully understood, but people living closest to the San Juan Mountains, to the northeast of Mesa Verde, were affected first.
As the Little Ice Age progressed, farmers probably moved their fields to lower elevations, infringing on the lands of other farmers and pushing people together, thus contributing to the aggregations.
Archaeologists identify a corresponding shift in populations toward the south and west toward Mesa Verde and away from higher elevations.
Sharing and cooperation were almost certainly part of early Puebloan life, even for people living in largely independent single-household residences scattered across the landscape.
Archaeologists find that even the most isolated residences during the eleventh and twelfth centuries obtained some pottery, and probably food, from some distance away, while major ceremonial events were opportunities for sharing food and crafts.
Scholars believe that this cooperation allowed people to contend with a patchy environment in which precipitation and other resources varied across the landscape: if you produce a lot of food one year, you might trade it for pottery made by a distant ally who is having difficulty with crops  and the next year, the flow of goods might go in the opposite direction.
Although the climate remained as unpredictable as ever between one year and   the next, it became much less locally diverse.
Instead, the most sensible thing would be for neighbors to combine efforts to produce as much food as possible, and thus aggregated towns were a sensible arrangement.
Northwest of Tharsis is the largest volcano of all: Olympus Mons, with a height of 25 kilometers and measuring some 700 kilometers in diameter at its base.
None of these volcanoes was formed as a result of collisions between plates of the Martian crust-there is no plate motion on Mars.
As lava flows and spreads to form a shield volcano, the volcano's eventual height depends on the new mountain's ability to support its own weight.
The lower the gravity, the lesser the weight and the greater the height of the mountain.
It is no accident that Maxwell Mons on Venus and the Hawaiian shield volcanoes on Earth rise to about the same height (about 10 kilometers) above their respective bases-Earth and Venus have similar surface gravity.
Scientists have no direct evidence for recent or ongoing eruptions, but if these volcanoes were active as recently as 100 million, years ago (an estimate of the time of last "eruption based on the extent of impact cratering on their slopes), some of them may still be at least intermittently active.
Millions of years, though, may pass between eruptions.
The Mariner spacecraft found that the surface of Mars, as well as that of its two moons, is pitted with impact craters formed by meteoroids falling in from space.
However, Martian craters get filled in considerably faster than their lunar counterparts.
craters too big to have been filled in by erosion since they were formed) serves as an age indicator for the Martian surface.
Age estimates ranging from four billion years for Mars's southern highlands to a few hundred million years in the youngest volcanic areas were obtained in this way.
The ejecta surrounding the lunar crater is just what one would expect from an explosion ejecting a large volume of dust, soil, and boulders.However, the ejecta on Mars gives the distinct impression of a liquid that has splashed or flowed out of crater.
By the seventeenth century, however, other European powers had taken over, as the Italian cities lost much of their economic might. 
First, Venic's intermediary functions in the Adriatic Sea, where it had dominated the business of shipping for other parties, were lost to direct trading.
In the fifteenth century there was little problem recruiting sailors to row the galleys (large ships propelled by oars): guilds (business associations) were required to provide rowers, and through a draft system free citizens served compulsorily when called for.
In the early sixteenth century the shortage of rowers was not serious because the demand for galleys was limited by a move to round ships (round-hulled ships with more cargo space), with required fewer rowers.
The problem in shipping extended to the Arsenale, Venice's huge and powerful shipyard.
Private shipbuilders were required to buy their oak abroad.
As the costs of shipbuilding rose, Venice clung to its outdated standard while the Dutch were innovation in the lighter and more easily handled ships.
The step from buying foreign timber to buying foreign ships was regarded as a short one, especially when complaints were heard in the latter sixteenth century that the standards and traditions of the Arsenale were running down.
Older workers had been allowed to stop work a half hour before the regular time, and in 1601 younger works left with them.
Merchants complained that the privileges reserved for Venetian-built and owned ships were first extended to those Venetians who bought ships from abroad and then to foreign-built and owned vessels.
The Venetian Council finally allowed round ships to enter the trade that was previously reserved for merchant galleys, thus reducing transport cost by one third.
Moreover, Italian sailors were deserting and emigrating, and captains, no longer recruited from the ranks of nobles, were weak on navigations.
The ancestors of plants were photosynthetic single-celled organisms that gave rise to plants presumably lacked true roots, stems, leaves, and complex reproductive structures such as flowers.
This supposition stems from the close phylogenetic (natural evolutionary) relationship between the two groups.
If so, the green algae would have been subjected to environmental pressures that resulted in adaptations that enhanced their potential to give rise to land-dwelling or organisms.
These adaptations served their descendant well as they invaded land.
From a plant's evolutionary view point, however, it was also a land of opportunity, free of competitors, and predator arid full of carbon dioxide and sunlight (the raw materials for photosynthesis, which are present in far higher concentrations in air than in water).
These adaptations allowed an increasing diversity of plant forms to exploit dry land.
Life on land, however, also required new methods of transporting sperm to eggs.
Protected embryos and waterless k dispersal of sex cells were achieved with the origin of seed plans and the key evolutionary innovations that they introduced: pollen, seeds, and later, flowers and fruits.
For years historians have sought to identify crucial elements in the eighteenth-century rise in industry, technology, and economic power Known as the Industrial Revolution, and many give prominence to the problem of energy.
Until the eighteenth century, people relied on energy derived from plants as well as animal and human muscle to provide power Increased efficiency in the use of water and wind helped with such tasks as pumping, milling, or sailing.
However, by the eighteenth century, Great Britain in particular was experiencing an energy shortage.
Great Britain had large amounts of coal; however, there were not yet efficient means by which to produce mechanical energy or to power machinery.
The engine helped solve the problem of draining coal mines of groundwater and increased the production of coal needed to power steam engines elsewhere.
A rotary engine attached to the steam engine enabled shafts to be turned and machines to be driven, resulting in mills using steam power to spin and weave cotton.
Between 1760 and 1850, the amount of raw cotton imported increased 230 times.
The success of the steam engine resulted in increased demands for coal, and the consequent increase in coal production was made possible as the steam-powered pumps drained water from the ever-deeper coal seams found below the water table.
The availability of steam power and the demands for new machines facilitated the transformation of the iron industry.
Impurities were burnt away with the use of coke, producing a high-quality refined iron.
Reduced cost was also instrumental in developing steam-powered rolling mills capable of producing finished iron of various shapes and sizes.
The resulting boom in the iron industry expanded the annual iron output by more than 170 times between 1740 and 1840, and by the 1850s Great Britain was producing more tons of iron than the rest of the world combined.
The developments in the iron industry were in part a response to the demand for more machines and the ever-widening use of higher-quality iron in other industries.
Steam power and iron combined to revolutionize transport, which in turn had further implications.
Parallel rails had long been used in mining operations to move bigger loads, but horses were still the primary source of power.
However, the arrival of the steam engine initiated a complete transformation in rail transportation, entrenching and expanding the Industrial Revolution.
Despite these conditions, however, many varieties of plants and animals have adapted to deserts in a number of ways.
Most plant tissues die if their water content falls too low: the nutrients that feed plants are transmitted by water; water is a raw material in the vital process of photosynthesis; and water regulates the temperature of a plant by its ability to absorb heat and because water vapor lost to the atmosphere through the leaves helps to lower plant temperatures.
Given a year of favorable precipitation, such plants will develop vigorously and produce large numbers of flowers and fruit.
The seeds then lie dormant until the next wet year, when the desert blooms again.
When conditions are hot, the ostrich erects them on its back, thus increasing the thickness of the barrier between solar radiation and the skin.
The sparse distribution of the feathers, however, also allows considerable lateral air movement over the skin surface, thereby permitting further heat loss by convection.
The earliest of the city states of the ancient Near East appeared at the southern end of the Mesopotamian plain, the area between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers in what is now Iraq.
There were few natural resources, no timber, stone, or metals.
Once this was done and the silt carried down by the rivers was planted, the rewards were rich: four to five times what rain-fed earth would produce.
It was these conditions that allowed an elite to emerge, probably as an organizing class, and to sustain itself through the control of surplus crops.
In some way, the elite had associated themselves with the power of the gods.
Uruk, for instance, had two patron gods  Anu, the god of the sky and sovereign of all other gods, and Inanna, a goddess of love and war  and there were others, patrons of different cities.
Human beings were at their mercy.
The logograms were incised on damp clay tablets with a stylus with a wedge shape at its end.
Although copper and stone tools continued to be used, bronze was far more successful in creating sharp edges that could be used as anything from saws and scythes to weapons.
While population estimates are notoriously unreliable, scholars assume that Uruk inhabitants were able to support themselves from the agricultural production of the field surrounding the city, which could be reached with a daily commute.
For some unknown reason, many were discarded, often still intact, and thousands have been found all over the Near East.
A variety of documentation indicates that certain goods, once made by a family member as one of many duties, were later made by skilled artisans.
Certain images depict groups of people, most likely women, involved in weaving textiles, an activity we know from later third-millennium texts to have been vital in the economy and to have been centrally administered.
Objects themselves suggest that they were the work of skilled professionals.
All are slowly moving because the plates float on a denser semiliquid mantle, the layer between the crust and Earth  s core.
The plates have edges that are spreading ridges (where two plates are moving apart and new seafloor is being created), subduction zones (where two plates collide and one plunges beneath the other),or transform faults(where two plates neither converge nor diverge but merely move past one another).It is at the boundaries between plates that most of Earth  s volcanism and earthquake activity occur.
However, there are exceptions.
The Hawaiian Islands provide a very instructive answer.
The Hawaiian Islands Chain extends northwest from the island of Hawaii.
In the 1840s American geologist James Daly observed that the different Hawaii Islands seem to share a similar geologic evolution but are progressively more eroded, and therefore probably older, toward the northwest.
Then in 1963, in the early days of the development of the theory of plate tectonics, Canadian geophysicist Tuzo Wilson realized that this age progression could result if the islands were formed on a surface plate moving over a fixed volcanic source in the interior.
Wilson suggested that the long chain of volcanoes stretching northwest from Hawaii is simply the surface expression of a long-lived volcanic source located beneath the tectonic plate in the mantle.
Today  s most northwest island would have been the first to form.
Then, as the plate moved slowly northwest, new volcanic islands would have forms as the plate moved over the volcanic source.
Although this idea was not immediately accepted, the dating of lavas in the Hawaii (and other) chains showed that their ages increase away from the presently active volcano, just as Daly had suggested.
The plumes apparently originate at great depths, perhaps as deep as the boundary between the core and the mantle, and many have been active for a very long time.
Other islands, including Tahiti and Easter Islands in the Pacific, Reunion and Mauritius in the Indian Ocean, an indeed most of the large islands in the world  s oceans, owe their existence to mantle plumes.
However, because the ocean basins really are short-lived features on geologic times scales, reconstructing the world  s geography by backtracking along the hot-spot trail works only for the last 5 percent or so of geologic time.
The answer is not as simple as might be thought.
Careful studies have demonstrated, however, that this not the case.
However, if safe areas like those prey animals have in the wild are provided, the prey population drops to low levels but not to extinction.
Lower birth rates, low juvenile suvivorship, and low growth rates follow, so there is a conrresponding decline in hare abundance.
Field experiments carried out by Charles Krebs and coworkers in 1992 provide an answer.
When food was added to these plots (no food effect) and predators were excluded (no predator effect) from an experimental area, hare numbers increased tenfold and stayed there  the cycle was lost.
However, the cycle was retained if either of the factors was allowed to operate alone: if predators were excluded but food was not added (food effect alone), or if food was added in the presence of predators (predator effect alone).
However, if the community contains a predator of the strongest competitor species, then the population of that competitor is controlled.
Between sediment grains are spaces that can be filled with water.
In the intergranular spaces of rocks, however, fluid must flow around and between grains in a tortuous path; this winding path causes a resistance to flow.The rate at which the flowing water overcomes this resistance is related to the permeability of rock.
The more poorly sorted or the more tightly compacted a sediment is, the lower its porosity and permeability.
Igneous and metamorphic rocks are more compact, commonly crystalline, and rarely contain spaces between grains.
However, even igneous and metamorphic rocks may act as groundwater reservoirs if extensive fracturing occurs in such rocks and if the fracture system is interconnected.
In particularly wet years, short stretches of an otherwise dry stream-bed may have flowing water because the water table rises to intersect the land surface.
The areas that are now desert were, like all arid regions, very susceptible to cycles of higher and lower levels of rainfall, resulting in major, sudden changes in distributions of plants and animals.
Even before the drought, the Sahara was never well watered.
Both humans and animals were constantly on the move, in search of food and reliable water supplies.
The beasts were more disciplined, so that it was easier for hunters to predict their habits, and capture animals at will.
At the same time, both cattle and humans were more confined in their movements, staying much closer to permanent water supplies for long periods of time.
Smith believes that the hunters were well aware of the more disciplined ways in which their prey behaved.
The newly domesticated animals behaved better, were easier to control, and may have enjoyed a higher birth rate, which in turn yielded greater milk supplies.
We know from rock paintings deep in the Sahara that the herders were soon selecting breeding animals to produce offspring with different horn shapes and hide colors.
It is still unclear whether domesticated cattle were tamed independently in northern Africa or introduced to the continent from Southwest Asia.Whatever the source of the original tamed herds might have been, it seems entirely likely that much the same process of juxtaposition (living side by side) and control occurred in both Southwest Asia and northern Africa, and even in Europe, among peoples who had an intimate knowledge of the behavior of wild cattle.
On the other hand, rainfall increased in the interior of western Africa, and the northern limit of the tsetse fly, an insect fatal to cattle, moved south.
By this time, the Saharan people were probably using domestic crops, experimenting with such summer rainfall crops as sorghum and millet as they moved out of areas where they could grow wheat, barley, and other Mediterranean crops.
However, biologists also noted that deer sniff and lick an unfamiliar rub, which suggests that this visual mark on a small tree plays an important communication purpose in the social life of deer.
These odors make buck rubs an important means of olfactory communication between deer.
For instance, as we all know, dogs recognize each other via smell.
Thus, the presence of many well-marked rubs is indicative of older, higher-status males being in the general vicinity rather than simply being a crude measure of relative deer abundance in a given area.
However, it is impossible to do justice to Roman wares on the page, even when words can be backed up by photographs and drawings.
With handmade pottery, inevitably there are slight differences between individual vessels of the same design and occasional minor blemishes (flaws).
But what strikes the eye and the touch most immediately and most powerfully with Roman pottery is its consistent high quality.
This is not just an aesthetic consideration but also a practical one.These vessels are solid (brittle, but not fragile), they are pleasant and easy to handle (being light and smooth), and, with their hard and sometimes glossy (smooth and shiny) surfaces, they hold liquids well and are easy to wash.
When people today are shown a very ordinary Roman pot and, in particular, are allowed to handle it, they often comment on how modern it looks and feels, and they need to be convinced of its true age.
When considering quantities, we would ideally like to have some estimates for overall production from particular sites of pottery manufacture and for overall consumption at specific settlements.
However, no one who has ever worked in the field would question the abundance of Roman pottery, particularly in the Mediterranean region.
Only rarely can we derive any "real" quantities from deposits of broken pots.
However, there is one exceptional dump, which does represent a very large part of the site's total history of consumption and for which an estimate of quantity has been produced.
It has been estimated that Monte Testaccio contains the remains of some 53 million amphorae, in which around 6,000 million liters of oil were imported into the city from overseas, imports into imperial Rome were supported by the full might of the state and were therefore quite exceptional  but the size of the operations at Monte Testaccio, and the productivity and complexity that lay behind them, nonetheless cannot fail to impress.
The existence of competition has been long known to naturalists; its effects were described by Darwin in considerable detail.
This was described by Darwin for indigenous New Zealand species of animals and plants, which died out when competing species from Europe were introduced.
The result was the extermination of a large fraction of the South American mammals, which were apparently unable to withstand the competition from invading North American species  although added predation was also an important factor.
The evolutionary effect of competition on species has been referred to as "species selection;" however, this description is potentially misleading.
The effect on the well-being and existence of a species is just the result of the effects of selection on all the individuals of the species.
In the case of animals it is usually food; in the case of forest plants it may be light; in the case of substrate inhabitants it may be space, as in many shallow-water bottom-dwelling marine organisms.
Indeed, it may be for any of the factors, physical as well as biotic, that are essential for organisms.
No one knows exactly when the waterwheel was invented, but irrigation systems existed at least 5,000 years ago, and it seems probable that the earliest waterpower device was the noria, a waterwheel that raised water for irrigation in attached jars.
The earliest waterpower mills were probably vertical-axis mills for grinding corn, known as Norse or Greek mills, which seem to have appeared during the first or second century B.C.
In the following centuries, increasingly sophisticated waterpower mills were built throughout the Roman Empire and beyond its boundaries in the Middle East and northern Europe.
The first documented English mill was in the eighth century, but three centuries later about 5,000 were recorded, suggesting that every settlement of any size had its mill.
Raising water and grinding corn were by no means the only uses of the waterpower mill, and during the following centuries, the applications of waterpower kept pace with the developing technologies of mining, iron working, paper making, and the wool and cotton industries.
Water was the main source of mechanical power, and by the end of the seventeenth century, England alone is thought to have had some 20,000 working mills.
They revealed output powers ranging from about 1 horsepower to perhaps 60 for the largest wheels and confirmed that for maximum efficiency, the water should pass across the blades as smoothly as possible and fall away with minimum speed, having given up almost all of its kinetic energy.
(They also proved that, in principle, the overshot wheel, a type of wheel in which an overhead stream of water powers the wheel, should win the efficiency competition.)
But then steam power entered the scene, putting the whole future of waterpower in doubt.
An energy analyst writing in the year 1800 would have painted a very pessimistic picture of the future for waterpower.
However, like many later experts, this one would have suffered from an inability to see into the future.
A century later the picture was completely different: by then, the world had an electric industry, and a quarter of its generating capacity was water powered.
The growth of the electric-power industry was the result of a remarkable series of scientific discoveries and developments in electrotechnology during the nineteenth century, but significant changes in what we might now call hydro (water) technology also played their part.
Half a century of development was needed before Faraday's discoveries in electricity were translated into full-scale power stations.
In 1881 the Godalming power station in Surrey, England, on the banks of the Wey River, created the world's first public electricity supply.
The power source of this most modern technology was a raditional waterwheel.
The capacity of individual power stations, many of them hydro plants, rose from a few kilowatts to over a megawatt in less than a decade.
The Benefits of play must outweigh the costs, or play would not have evolved, according to Darwin  s theory.
In one research study, two groups of young rats were raised under different conditions.
One group developed in an   enriched   environment, which allowed the rats to interact with other rats, play with toys, and receive maze training.
At the end of the experiments, the results showed that the actual weight of the brains of the impoverished rats was less than that of those raised in the enriched environment (though they were fed the same diets).
Other studies have shown that greater stimulation not only affects the size of the brain but also increases the number of connections between the nerve cells.
By the early twentieth century, the question about the rate of evolution had been answered in favor of gradualism to most biologists   satisfaction.
Horses evolved in discrete steps, each of which persisted almost unchanged for millions of years and was eventually replaced by a distinctive newer model.
The four-toed Eohippus preceded the three-toed Miohippus, for example, but North American fossil evidence suggests a jerky, uneven transition between the two.
No significant discontinuities were observed, leading Sheldon to conclude that environmental conditions were quite stable during the period he examined. 
But a lot more studies like Sheldon  s are needed before we can say for sure.
Both these devices worked well in sunny climates; but in Northern Europe the sun may be hidden by clouds for weeks at a time, while temperatures vary not only seasonally but from day to night.
It seems to have appeared in Italy and England (perhaps simultaneous invention) between 1275 and 1300.
Once known, it spread rapidly, driving out water clocks but not solar dials, which were needed to check the new machines against the timekeeper of last resort.
These early versions were rudimentary, inaccurate, and prone to breakdown. 
Although church ritual hand sustained an interest in timekeeping throughout the centuries of urban collapse that followed the fall of Rome, church time was nature  s time.
Day and night were divided into the same number of parts, so that except at the equinoxes, day and night hours were unequal; and then of course the length of these hours varied with the seasons.
From the start, however, the towns and cities took equal hours as their standard, and the public clocks installed in town halls and market squares became the very symbol of a new, secular municipal authority.
They were thus the pioneers of mechanical engineering and served as examples and teachers to other branches of engineering.
Physical separation between subpopulations promotes the formation of new species because once the members of one subpopulation can no longer mate with members of another subpopulation, they cannot exchange variant genes that arise in one of the subpopulations.
In the absence of gene flow between the subpopulations, genetic differences between the groups begin to accumulate.
Eventually the subpopulations become so genetically distinct that they cannot interbreed even if the physical barriers between them were removed.
The change separated populations of insects now living along opposite shore, completely cutting off gene flow between them.
Some groups that had descended from the same parent population were no longer reproductively compatible  they had evolved into separate species.
In other groups, however, genetic divergences had not proceeded so far, and the descendants could still interbreed   for them, reproductive isolation was not completed, and so speciation had not occurred. 
About 5 million years ago such geologic movements created the land bridge between North America and South America that we call he Isthmus of Panama.
While previously the gap between the continents had allowed a free flow of water, now the isthmus presented a barrier that divided the Atlantic Ocean from the Pacific Ocean.
Graves found that all for Pacific enzymes function better at lower temperatures than the four Atlantic versions of the same enzymes.
First, at least some of the observed differences between the enzymes of the Atlantic and Pacific fish populations were not random but were the result of evolutionary adaptation.
For instance, compared with children who did not participate in early intervention programs, participants in various programs showed gains in emotional or cognitive development, better educational outcomes, increased economic self-sufficiency, reduced level of criminal activity, and improved health-related behaviors.
Still, the results of the evaluation were promising, suggesting that the potential benefits of early intervention can be substantial. 
Located in tropical areas at low altitudes, savannas are stable ecosystems, some wet and some dry consisting of vast grasslands with scattered trees or shrubs.
One theory behind savanna formation is that wet forest species are unable to withstand the dry season, and thus a savanna, rather than a rain forest, is favored on the site.
Savannas experience an annual rainfall of between 1,000 and 2,000 millimeters, most of it falling in a five- to eight-month wet season.
Such conditions prevail throughout much of northern South America and Cuba, but many Central American savannas as well as coastal areas of Brazil and the island of Trinidad do not fit this pattern.
Some savannas occur on wet, waterlogged soils; others on dry, sandy, well-drained soils.
This may seem contradictory, but it only means that extreme soil conditions, either too wet or too dry for forests, are satisfactory for savannas.
Are cannot penetrate between the soil particles, making the soil oxygen-poor.
A fertile, plowed field is rapidly invaded by a large variety of weeds, whereas a neighboring construction site from which the soil has been compacted or removed to expose a coarse, infertile parent material may remain virtually free of vegetation for many months or even years despite receiving the same input of seeds as the plowed field. 
Alternative strategies have evolved in some plants, such as those that produce fewer but larger seeds that are dispersed to suitable sites by birds or small mammals or those that produce long-lived seeds.
For example, as many as 1,125 viable seeds per square meter were found in a 100-year-old Douglas fir/western hemlock forest in coastal British Columbia.
Nearly all the seeds that had germinated from this seed bank were from pioneer species.
An adaptation that is well developed in colonizing species is a high degree of variation in germination (the beginning of a seed  s growth).
Such species generally grow rapidly and quickly dominate new sites, excluding other species with lower invasion and growth rates.
The first community that occupies a disturbed area therefore may be composed of species with the highest rate of invasion, whereas the community of the subsequent stage may consist of plants with similar survival rates but lower invasion rates.
In the late nineteenth century, political and social changes were occurring rapidly in Siam (now Thailand).
The old ruling families were being displaced by an evolving centralized government.
These families were pensioned off(given a sum of money to live on) or simply had their revenues taken away or restricted; their sons were enticed away to schools for district officers, later to be posted in some faraway  province; and the old patron-client relations that had bound together local societies simply disintegrated.
Local rulers could no longer protect their relatives and attendants in legal cases, and with the ending in 1905 of the practice of forcing peasant farmers to work part-time for local ruling families, then, were severed from their traditional social context. 
The same situation viewed from the perspective of the rural population is even more complex.
According to the government  s first census of the rural population, taken in 1905, there were about thirty thousand villages in Siam.
There were still forests closely surrounding Bangkok into the last half of the nineteenth century, and even at century  s end there were wild elephants and tigers roaming the countryside only twenty or thirty miles away.
They were able to do so because of our second consideration.
They were relatively freer than they had been half a century earlier.
Over the course of the Fifth Reign (1868---1910), the ties that bound rural people to the aristocracy and local ruling elites were greatly reduced.
By the early twentieth century, as government modernization in a sense caught up with what had been happening in the countryside since the 1870s, the government bureaucracy intruded more and more into village life.
As well as can be measured, rural standards of living improved in the Fifth Reign.
Stingless bees are abundant in tropical and subtropical environments, where they gather nectar and pollen from a wide variety of flowers.
Aggressive species usually forage in groups and feed mainly on flowers that occur in high-density clumps.
Nonaggressive species feed singly or in small groups and on more widely distributed flowers.
Hubbell and Johnson studied several species of stingless bees to determine whether there is a relationship between aggressiveness and patterns of colony distribution.
Though Hubbell and Johnson were interested in how bee behavior might affect colony distributions, they recognized that the availability of potential nest sites for colonies could also affect distributions.
They found that potential nest trees were distributed randomly through the study area.
Hubbell and Johnson mapped the nests of five of the nine species of stingless bees accurately, and the nests of four of these species were distributed regularly.
All four species with regular nest distributions were highly aggressive to bees from other colonies of their own species.
The fifth species was not aggressive, and its nests were randomly distributed over the study area.
The pheromone secreted by these stingless bees attracts and aggregates members of their colony to the prospective nest site; however, it also attracts workers from other nests.
The researchers observed battles over a nest tree that lasted for two weeks.
Bees did not appear to be injured in these fights, which were apparently ritualized.
The exact time and place that crops were first cultivated successfully is uncertain.
The advantage was that crops grown in such areas were not as dependent on rainfall and therefore produced a more reliable harvest.
Thus, the first truly sedentary (that is, nonmigratory) societies were born.
As time went on, such communities gradually learned how to direct the flow of water to enhance the productive capacity of the land, while the introduction of the iron plow eventually led to the cultivation of heavy soils not previously susceptible to agriculture.
By means of their military prowess, dominant personalities, or political talents, these people gradually emerge as the leaders of that community.
As the communities continue to grow in size and material wealth, the   big men   assume hereditary status, and their allies and family members are transformed into a hereditary monarchy.
While some of these urban centers were identified with a particular economic function, such as proximity to gold or iron deposits or a strategic location on a major trade route, others served primarily as administrative centers or the site of temples for the official cult or other ritual observances.
Much of the new construction during the 1850s occurred west of the Appalachian Mountains  C over 2,000 miles in the states of Ohio and Illinois alone.
The new railroad networks shifted the direction of western trade.
In 1840 most northwestern grain was shipped south down the Mississippi River to the bustling port of New Orleans.
Increasingly, traffic from the Midwest flowed west to east, over the new rail lines.
Chicago became the region  s hub, linking the farms of the upper Midwest to New York and other eastern cities by more than 2,000 miles of track in 1855.
Thus while the value of goods shipped by river to New Orleans continued to increase, the South  s overall share of western trade dropped dramatically.
A sharp rise in demand for grain abroad also encouraged farmers in the Northeast and Midwest to become more commercially oriented.
To settlers accustomed to eastern woodlands, the thousands of square miles of tall grass were an awesome sight.
In 1837, however, John Deere patented a sharp-cutting steel plow that sliced through the sod without soil sticking to the blade.
The new commercial farming fundamentally altered the Midwestern landscape and the environment.
Native Americans had grown corn in the region for years, but never in such large fields as did later settlers who became farmers, whose surpluses were shipped east.
Prairie farmers also introduced new crops that were not part of the earlier ecological system, notably wheat, along with fruits and vegetables.
Native grasses were replaced by a small number of plants cultivated as commodities.
It was an artificial ecosystem of animals, woodlots, and crops, whose large, uniform layout made western farms more efficient than the more-irregular farms in the East.
Collectively, more species went extinct during smaller events that were less dramatic but more frequent.
Starting about 280 million years ago, reptiles were the dominant large animals in terrestrial environments.
However, no group or species can maintain its dominance indefinitely, and when, after over 200 million years, the age of dinosaurs came to a dramatic end about 65 million years ago, mammals began to flourish, evolving from relatively few types of small terrestrial animals into the myriad of diverse species, including bats and whales, that we know today.
Overall, about 38 percent of the families of marine animals were lost, with percentages much higher in some groups Ammonoid mollusks went from being very diverse and abundant to being extinct.
The number of flowering plants (angiosperms) was reduced at this time, but they then began to increase dramatically.
For many years scientists assumed that a cooling of the climate was responsible, with dinosaurs being particularly vulnerable because, like modern reptiles, they were ectothermic (dependent on environmental heat, or cold-blooded).
Explanations for the K-T extinction were revolutionized in 1980 when a group of physical scientists led by Luis Alvarez proposed that 65 million years ago Earth was stuck by a 10-kilometer-wide meteorite traveling at 90,000 kilometers per hour.
This came about from two major developments: paper became common, replacing parchment as the major medium for writing, and rounded scripts were regularized and perfected so that they replaced the angular scripts of the previous period, which because of their angularity were uneven in height.
Books became major vehicles for artistic expression, and the artists who produced them, notably calligraphers and painters, enjoyed high status, and their workshops were often sponsored by princes and their courts.
Before A.D. 900, manuscripts of the Koran (the book containing the teachings of the Islamic religion) seem to have been the most common type of book produced and decorated, but after that date a wide range of books were produced for a broad spectrum of patrons.
These continued to include, of course, manuscripts of the Koran, which every Muslim wanted to read, but scientific works, histories, romances, and epic and lyric poetry were also copied in fine handwriting and decorated with beautiful illustrations.
Most were made for sale on the open market, and cities boasted special souks(markets) where books were bought and sold.
Some of the most luxurious books were specific commissions made at the order of a particular prince and sighed by the calligrapher and decorator. 
It has been said that Chinese papermakers were among the prisoners captured in a battle fought near Samarqand between the Chinese and the Muslims in 751, and the technique of papermaking---in which cellulose pulp extracted from any of several plants is first suspended in water, caught on a fine screen, and then dried into flexible sheets---slowly spread westward.
In western Islamic land, parchment continued to be used for manuscripts of the Koran throughout this period. 
At first, paper was made in relatively small sheets that were pasted together, but by the beginning of the fourteenth century, very large sheets---as much as a meter across---were available.
This in turn allowed the easy transfer of artistic ideas and motifs over great distances, from one medium to another, and in a different scale in ways that had been difficult, if not impossible, in the previous period. 
By 1640 most homes in London were heated with it, and it also provided heat for making beer, glass, soap, and other products.
Coal was not used, however, to produce mechanical energy or to power machinery.
As more coal was produced, mines were dug deeper and deeper and were constantly filling with water.
Mechanical pumps, usually powered by hundreds of horses walking in circles at the surface, had to be installed.
Such power was expensive and bothersome.
Both engines were extremely inefficient.
However, by the early 1770s, many of the Savery engines and hundreds of the Newcomen engines were operating successfully, though inefficiently, in English and Scottish mines. 
The steam engine of Watt and his followers was the technological advance that gave people, at least for a whild, unlimited power and allowed the invention and use of all kinds of power equipment.
The steam power plant began to replace waterpower in the cotton-spinning mills as well as other industries during the 1780s, contributing to a phenomenal rise in industrialization.
The use of powerful, steam-driven bellows in blast furnaces helped iron makers switch over rapidly from limited charcoal to unlimited coke (which is made from coal) in the smelting of pig iron (the process of refining impure iron) after 1770.
In the 1780s, Henry Cort developed the puddling furnace, which allowed pig iron to be refined in turn with coke.
Cort also developed heavy-duty, steam-powered rolling mills, which were capable of producing finished iron in every shape and form.
The economic consequence of these technical innovations in steam power was a great boom in the British iron industry.
He called for proof of the protectionist view: that visitations of the ants confer protection on the plants and that in the absence of the protectionist view: that visitations of the ants confer protection on the plants and that in the absence of the insects a much greater number would perish or fail to produce flowers or seeds than when the insects are present.
That we now have an abundance of the proof that was called for was established when Barbara Bentley reviewed the relevant evidence in 1977, and since then many more observations and experiments have provided still further proof that ants benefit plants.
The principal insect enemies of the North American morning glory feed mainly on its flowers or fruits rather than its leaves.
Grasshoppers feeding on flowers indirectly block pollination and the production of seeds by destroying the corolla or the stigma, which receives the pollen grains and on which the pollen germinates.
Without their colorful corolla, flowers do not attract pollinators and are not fertilized.
They continue to do so as the flower develops and while the fruit matures.
Observations leave little doubt that ants protect morning glory flowers and fruits from the combined enemy force of grasshoppers, caterpillars, and seed beetles.
Bentley compared the seed production of six plants that grew where there were no ants with that of seventeen plants that were occupied by ants.
Similar applications of this concept were to be used again and again in later centuries to estimate the ages of rock formations and, in particular, of layers of sediment that had compacted and cemented to form sedimentary rocks.
It was not until the seventeenth century that attempts were made again to understand clues to Earth's history through the rock record.
However, James Hutton (1726-1797), known as the founder of modern geology, was the first to have the important insight that geologic processes are cyclic in nature.
With the further assumption that these geologic processes were generally no more or less vigorous than they are today, Hutton's examination of sedimentary layers led him to realize that Earth's history must be enormous, that geologic time is an abyss and human history a speck by comparison.
Typical numbers produced at the turn of the twentieth century were 100 million to 400 million years.
These underestimated the actual age by factors of 10 to 50 because much of the sedimentary record is missing in various locations and because there is a long rock sequence that is older than half a billion years that is far less well defined in terms of fossils and less well preserved.
Various other techniques to estimate Earth's age fell short, and particularly noteworthy in this regard were flawed determinations of the Sun's age.
Ages for Earth were derived that were in the tens of millions of years, much less than the geologic estimates of the lime.
For most of human history, we have foraged (hunted, fished, and collected wild plants) for food.
Such societies likely were largely egalitarian, beyond distinctions based on age and gender: virtually all people had equivalent rights, status, and access to resources.
High levels of physical activity and long periods of nursing, which are common among modern simple foragers, probably also contributed to low levels of female fertility if they were likewise common among ancient foragers. 
A more sedentary existence may also have lowered infant mortality and perhaps increased longevity among the aged.
However, good land may itself be limited    for example, to within the confines of a river valley.
Hierarchies that did not exist in earlier foraging groups but that were helpful in structuring cooperative labor and in organizing more-complex technologies probably became established, even before domestication and agriculture, as pre-Neolithic societies (before the tenth millennium B C E) reacted to the population increase.
The quantity and total weight of soil flora generally exceed that of soil fauna.
The bacteria that legumes host within their root nodules (small swellings on the root) change nitrogen gas from the atmosphere into nitrogen compounds that plants are able to metabolize, a process, known as nitrogen fixation, that makes the soil more fertile.
The minerals released as these plants decompose on the surface constitute an important nutrient source for succeeding generations of plants as well as for other soil organisms.
Among other soil-dwelling animals, the earthworm is probably the most important.
Under exceptionally favorable conditions, up to a million earthworms (with a total body weight exceeding 450 kilograms) may inhabit an acre of soil.
He collected hundreds of different species of animals, and he saw that they were distributed in eight different depth zones, each containing its own distinct assemblage of animal life, the way zones of elevation on the side of a mountain are populated by distinct sets of plants. 
Forbes also thought he saw, as he later told the British Association, that   the number of species and individuals diminishes as we descend, pointing to a zero in the distribution of animal life as yet unvisited.
But even the more sensible naturalists of the day were guilty of a similar misconception.
One was the particular study site he happened to use as a springboard for his sweeping postulate of a lifeless abyss.
Searching for the Northwest Passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific in 1818, Sir John Ross had lowered his   deep-sea clam  --a sort of bivalved sediment scoop--into the water of Baffin Bay ( an inlet between the Atlantic and Arctic oceans), which the determined to be more than a thousand fathoms deep in some places.
It brought back mud laced with worms, and starfish that dad entangled themselves in the line at depths well below the supposed boundary of the azoic zone.
Originally moths were uniformly pale gray or whitish in color; dark-colored (melanic) individuals were rare and made up less than 2 percent of the population.
Melanics were normally quickly eliminated in nonindustrial areas by adverse selection; birds spotted them easily.
The North American equivalent of this story is another moth, the swettaria form of Biston cognataria, first noticed in industrialized areas such as Chicago and New York City in the early 1900s.
The idea that natural selection was responsible for the changing ratio of dark- to light-colored peppered moths was developed in the 1950s by H. B. D. Kettlewell of Oxford University.
To determine whether this was true, Kettlewell released thousands of light and dark moths (each marked with a paint spot) into rural and industrialized areas.
In the industrial area of Birmingham, the situation was reversed: 13 percent of pale forms but 27.5 percent of dark forms were recaptured.
Birds were predators of peppered moths.
Kettlewell hypothesized that the normal pale forms are difficult to see when resting on lichen-covered trees, whereas dark forms are conspicuous.
Kettlewell set up hidden observation positions and watched birds voraciously eat moths placed on tree trunks of a contrasting color.
More recent data, however, provide additional support for Kettleweir  s ideas about natural selection.
Before about 1975, 90 percent of the moths were dark, but since then there has been a steep decline in melanic forms, and in 1989 only 29.6 percent of the moths caught were melanic.
Many others had asked the same question before him, but Thales based his answer strictly on what he had observed and what he could reason out--not on imaginative stories about the gods or the supernatural.
His two best-known followers, though there were undoubtedly others who attained less renown, were Anaximander and Anaximenes.
Both were also from Miletus ( located on the southern coast of present-day Turkey) and so, like Thales, were members of the Milesian School.
As would later happen between another teacher-student pair of philosophers, Plato and Aristotle, Anaximander disagreed with his teacher despite his respect for him.
Anaximander  s most important contributions, though, were in other areas.
All we can say for certain about Anaximenes, who was probably born around 560 BCE, is that following in the tradition of Anaximander, he also disagreed with his mentor.
The Greeks, from Thales to Plato and Aristotle, were philosophers and not scientists in today  s sense.
A scientific theory about the universe, however demands much more than the various observations and analogies that were woven together to form systems of reasoning, carefully constructed as they were, that would eventually culminate in Aristotle  s model of the world and the universe.
The nature of translocation ranges from highly organized and researched national or international programs to as hoc releases of rescued animals by well-intentioned animal lovers.
However, against this is the potential for reinforcement translocations to spread disease from one population to another or to introduce deleterious or maladaptive genes to a population.
Is translocation successful if the individuals survive the first week or a year, or do they need to reproduce for one or several generations  Whatever the answer, it is clear that a general framework is required to ensure that any translocation is justified, has a realistic chance of success, and will be properly monitored and evaluated for the benefit of future efforts. 
A howler population was translocated from a site due to be flooded for hydroelectric power generation.
Released troops of monkeys were kept under visual observation and followed by radio tracking of 16 females.
Reviewing translocation of amphibians and reptiles, researchers C.Kenneth Dodd and Richard A. Siegel concluded that most projects have not demonstrated success as conservation techniques and should not be advocated as though they were acceptable management and mitigation practices.
At the end of the nineteenth century, there were basically two kinds of buildings in the United States.
On one hand were the buildings produced for the wealthy or for civic purposes, which tended to echo the architecture of the past and to use traditional styles of ornamentation.
On the other hand were purely utilitarian structures, such as factories and grain elevators, which employed modern materials such as steel girders and plate glass in an undisguised and unadorned manner.
Such buildings, however, were viewed in a category separate from   fine   architecture, and in fact were often designed by engineers and builders rather than architects.
Indeed, in this influential book Toward a New Architecture, the Swiss architect Le Corbusier illustrated his text with photographs of American factories and grain storage silos, as well as ships, airplanes, and other industrial objects.
For example, in traditional architecture, stone or brick walls served a structural role, but in a steel-beam building the walls were essentially hung from the internal skeleton of steel beams, which meant that walls and corners no longer needed to be solid but could be opened up in unexpected ways.
After ten or twelve stories, masonry construction reaches a maximum possible height, since it runs into difficulties of compression and of inadequate lateral strength to combat wind shear.
Such buildings were so different from any previous form of architecture that they quickly acquired a new name  the skyscraper.
However, when the metal is encased in fire-retardant materials, its vulnerability to fire is much decreased.
The terra-cotta tiles were used both to encase the supporting members and as flooring.
A structure built with steel beams protected by terra-cotta tiles was still three times lighter than a comparably sized building that used masonry construction, so the weight of the tiles was not a problem.
Before microscopes were first used in the seventeenth century, no one knew that living organisms were composed of cells.
The first microscopes were light microscopes, which work by passing visible light through a specimen.
Glass lenses in the microscope bend the light to magnify the image of the specimen and project the image into the viewer  s eye or onto photographic film.
Also important is resolving power, a measure of the clarity of an image.
Resolving power is the ability of an optical instrument to show two objects as separate.
Any optical device is limited by its resolving power.
From the year 1665, when English microscopist Robert Hooke discovered cells, until the middle of the twentieth century, biologists had only light microscopes for viewing cells.
Instead of light, the electron microscope uses a beam of electrons and has a much higher resolving power than the light microscope.
In fact, the most powerful modern electron microscopes can distinguish objects as small as 0.2 nanometers, a thousandfold improvement over the light microscope.
However, cells, cellular organelles, and even molecules like DNA and protein are much larger than single atoms. 
However, instead of lenses made of glass, the transmission electron microscope uses electromagnets as lenses, as do all electron microscopes.
They are found from southern Canada all the way to Panama, as well as on islands near coastal areas.
By now, their numbers have undoubtedly grown even more, as they have continued to expand into new habitats where they were once either rare or absent, such as sandy prairies, deserts, coastal marshes, and mountains.
As an example of the ease with which transplanted individuals can succeed, raccoons from Indiana (midwestern United States) have reportedly been able to flourish on islands off the coast of Alaska.
The expansion of agriculture, however, does not necessarily lead to rapid increases in their abundance.
Farming in Kansas and eastern Colorado (central and western United States) proceeded rapidly in the 1870s and 1880s?
Prior to Europeans settling and farming the Great Plains Region, raccoons probably were just found along its rivers and streams and in the wooded areas of its southeastern section.
They first became more widely distributed in the southern part of Manitoba, and by the 1940s were abundant throughout its southeastern portion.
In the 1950s their population swelled in Canada.
By the 1960s the raccoon had become a major predator of the canvasback ducks nesting in southwestern Manitoba.
In the eighteenth century, when the wolfs range included almost all of North America, raccoons apparently were abundant only in the deciduous forests of the East, Gulf Coast, and Great Lakes regions, though they also extended into the wooded bottomlands of the Midwest  s major rivers.
On the positive side, proponents of transgenic crops argue that these crops are environmentally friendly because they allow farmers to use fewer and less noxious chemicals for crop production.
In addition, when glyphosate is used to control weeds, other, more persistent herbicides do not need to be applied.
On the negative side, opponents of transgenic crops suggest that there are many questions that need to be answered before transgenic crops are grown on a large scale.
For example, monarch caterpillars feeding on milkweed plants near Bt cornfields will eat some corn pollen that has fallen on the milkweed leaves.
However, field tests indicate that Bt corn is not likely to harm monarchs.
Another unanswered question is whether herbicide-resistant genes will move into the populations of weeds.
Crop plants are sometimes grown in areas where weedy relatives also live.
If the crop plants hybridize and reproduce with weedy relatives, then this herbicide-resistant gene will be perpetuated in the offspring.
In this way, the resistant gene can make its way into the weed population.
If this happens, a farmer can no longer use glyphosate, for example, to kill those weeds.
This scenario is not likely to occur in many instances because there are no weedy relatives growing near the crop plant.
However, in some cases, it may become a serious problem.
For example, canola readily hybridizes with mustard weed species and could transfer its herbicide-resistant genes to those weeds.
However, transgenic Bt plants express the toxin in all tissues throughout growing season.
Planting a glyphosate-resistant crop commits a farmer to using that herbicide for the reason, probably to the exclusion of all other herbicides and other weed-control practices.
They were written on damp clay tablets with a wedged (or V-shaped) stick; since the Latin word for wedge is cunea, the texts are called cuneiform.
The clay tablets usually were not fired; sun drying was probably reckoned enough to preserve the text for as long as it was being used.
Fortunately, however, many tablets survived because they were accidentally fired when the buildings they were stored in burned. 
Cuneiform writing lasted for some 3,000 years, in a vast line of succession that ran through Sumer, Akkad, Assyria, Nineveh, and Babylon, and preserved for us fifteen languages in an area represented by modern-day Iraq, Syria, and western Iran.
Knowledge conferred power.
As a result, the scribes were assigned their own goddess, Nisaba, later replaced by the god Nabu of Borsippa, whose symbol is neither weapon nor dragon but something far more fearsome, the cuneiform stick. 
What is clear from the vast body of texts (some 20,000 tablets were found in King Ashurbanipal  s library at Nineveh) is that scribes took pride in their writing and knowledge. 
Remarkably, versions of Gilgamesh span 1,500 years, between 2100 B.C.E and 600 B.C.E., making the story the epic of an entire civilization.
The ancient Egyptians invented a different way of writing and a new substance to writ on --papyrus, a precursor of paper, made from a wetland plant.
Until 394 C.E., resulted in the creation of texts that were fine art as well as communication.
Scholars have detected some 6,000 separate hieroglyphic characters in use over the history of Egyptian writing, but it appears that never more than a thousand were in use during any one period.
Each symbol or glyph--the flowering reed (pronounced like   i  ), the owl (  m  ), the quail chick (  w  ), etcetera--was a tiny work of art.
Manuscripts were compiled with an eye to the overall design.
Egyptologists have noticed that the glyphs that constitute individual words were sometimes shuffled to make the text more pleasing to the eye with little regard for sound or sense.
Between 80 and 85 million years ago, Gondwanaland, a giant continent made up of what today is Africa, Antarctica, Australia, and South America, broke up, thus causing what is now New Zealand to become separated from the larger landmass.
Thus there are no New Zealand snakes, and bats, which flew there, and seals, which swam there, were the only mammals on New Zealand when Polynesian settlers (the Maori) arrived there about a thousand years ago.
Now extinct, moa were gigantic wingless birds that stood as much as 10 feet (3 meters) tall and weighed as much as 550 pounds (250 kilograms).
It seems possible that when Captain James Cook first visited New Zealand in 1769, moa (or at least one of the moa species) may have still survived in the remote areas in the western part of New Zealand  s South Island.
However, the main forest burning started around 700 years ago, after what current archaeological evidence indicates was the most intensive stage of moa hunting.
Because major habitat destruction seems to have occurred after moa populations already were depleted, and because some habitat that could have sheltered moa populations remained, it would seem that other factors were also at work in the extinction of these birds.
This period was followed by a time of decline in the Maori population and a societal transition to smaller, less numerous settlements.
However, evidence of such diseases is difficult to determine directly from paleoecological or archaeological remains.
For these reasons, it is hard to determine the likelihood that introduced disease organisms were a cause of the decline of moa, but they are potentially significant.
Forest fires have recently increased in intensity and extent in some forest types throughout the western United States.
That happy situation began to change in the 1980s, due to the increasing frequency of large forest fires that were essentially impossible to extinguish unless rain and low winds combined to help.
The mature ponderosa trees have bark two inches thick and are relatively resistant to fire, which instead burns out the understory  the lower layer  of fire-sensitive Douglas fir seedlings that have grown up since the previous fire.
However, loggers concentrated on removing those big, old, valuable, fire-resistant ponderosa pines, while fire suppression for decades let the understory fill up with Douglas fir saplings that would in turn become valuable when full-grown.
In the wetter eastern United States, dead trees rot away more quickly than in the drier West, where more dead trees persist like giant matchsticks.
The problems that were faced and solved in Athens were the sharing of political power between the established aristocracy and the emerging other classes, and the adjustment of aristocratic ways of life to the ways of life of the new polls.
Within this traditional framework the Athenians, between 600 B.C.
and 450 B.C., evolved what Greeks regarded as a fully-fledged democratic constitution, though the light to vote was given to fewer groups of people than is seen in modem times.
The first steps toward change were taken by Solon in 594 B.C., when he broke the aristocracy  s stranglehold on elected offices by establishing wear rather than birth as the basis of office holding, abolishing the economic obligations of ordinary Athenians to the aristocracy, and allowing the assembly (of which all citizens were equal members) to overrule the decisions of local courts in certain cases.
The strength of the Athenian aristocracy was further weakened during the rest of the century by the rise of a type of government known as a tyranny, which is a form of interim rule by a popular strongman (not rule by a ruthless dictator as the modem use of the term suggests to us).
The Peisistratids, as the succession of tyrants were called (after the founder of the dynasty, Peisistratos), strengthened Athenian central administration at the expense of the aristocracy by appointing judges throughout the region, producing Athens' first national coinage, and adding and embellishing festivals that tended to focus attention on Athens rather than on local villages of the surrounding region.
By the end of the century, the time was ripe for more change: the tyrants were driven out, and in 508 B.C.
Cleisthenes' principal contribution to the creation of democracy at Athens was to complete the long process of weakening family and dam structures, especially among the aristocrats, and to set in their place locality-based corporations called demes, which became the point of entry for all civic and most religious life in Athens.
Out of the demes were created 10 artificial tribes of roughly equal population.
The assembly was sovereign in all matters but in practice delegated its power to subordinate bodies such as the council, which prepared the agenda firm for meetings of the assembly, and the courts, which took care of most judicial matters.
Over the next two centuries the implications of Cleisthenes* reforms were fully exploited.
In the next century, however, it was the mature assembly that took on decision-making responsibility.
When we look at the way in which biodiversity (biological diversity) is distributed over the land surface of the planet, we find that it is far from even.
Why is it that higher latitudes have lower diversities than the tropics?
The tropics contain a larger surface area of land than higher latitudes  a fact that is not always evident when we examine commonly used projections of Earth's curved surface, since this tends to exaggerate the areas of land in the higher latitudes-and some biogeographers regard the differences in diversity as a reflection of this effect But an analysis of the data by biologist Klaus Rohde does not support this explanation.
Wind speeds are lower, temperatures are lower during the day (but warmer at night), and the relative humidity is much greater near the ground.
The climates of the higher latitudes are generally less favorable for the accumulation of large quantities of biomass; hence, the structure of vegetation is simpler and the animal diversity is consequently lower.
However, the idea that amphibians have no control whatsoever over their body temperature has been proven false because their body temperature does not always correspond to the surrounding temperature.
However, behavior is by far the most important factor in thermoregulation.
The principal elements in behavioral thermoregulation are basking (heliothermy), heat exchange with substrates such as rock or earth (thigmothermy)  and diurnal and annual avoidance behaviors, which include moving to shelter during the day for cooling and hibernating or estivating (reducing activity during cold or hot weather, respectively).
Species whose habitat in the temperate latitudes are confronted by lethal low temperatures in winter, while species dwelling in arid and semi-arid regions are exposed to long dry, hot periods in summer.
The Navajo, a Native American people living in the southwestern United States, live in small scattered settlements.
In many respects, such as education, occupation, and leisure activities, their life is like that of other groups that contribute to the diverse social fabric of North American culture in the twenty-first century.
These are actually made by pouring thin, finely controlled streams of colored sands or pulverized vegetable and mineral substances, pollen, and flowers in precise patterns on the ground.
The paintings and chants used in the ceremonies are directed by well-trained artists and singers who enlist the aid of spirits who are impersonated by masked performers.
The twenty-four known Navajo chants can be represented by up to 500 sand paintings.
As relative newcomers to the Southwest, a place where their climate, neighbors, and rulers could be equally inhospitable, the Navajo created these art forms to affect the world around them, not just through the recounting of the actions symbolized, but through the beauty and harmony of the artworks themselves.
Navajo women own the family flocks, control the sharing of the sheep, the carding, the spinning, and dying of the thread, and the weaving of the fabrics While the men who make faithful copies of sand paintings from the past represent the principle of stability in Navajo thought, women embody dynamism and create new designs for every weaving they make.
Weaving is a paradigm of the creativity of a mythic ancestor named Spider Woman who wove the universe as a cosmic web that united earth and sky It was she who, according to legend, taught Navajo women how to weave.
As they prepare their materials and weave, Navajo women imitate the transformations that originally created the world.
Working on their looms, Navajo weavers create images through which they experience harmony with nature it is their means of creating beauty and thereby contributing to the beauty, harmony, and healing of the world.
Thus, weaving is a way of seeing the world and being part of it.
The original atmospheres of both Venus and Earth were derived at least in part from gases spewed forth, or outgassed, by volcanoes.
Venus and Earth are similar in size and mass, so Venusian volcanoes may well have outgassed as much water vapor as on Earth, and both planets would have had about the same number of comets strike their surfaces.
Studies of how stars evolve suggest that the early Sun was only about 70 percent as luminous as it is now, so the temperature in Venus   early atmosphere must have been quite a bit lower.
But if water vapor and carbon dioxide were once so common in the atmospheres of both Earth and Venus, what became of Earth  s carbon dioxide?
The answer to the first question is that carbon dioxide is still found in abundance on Earth, but now, instead of being in the form of atmospheric carbon dioxide, it is either dissolved in the oceans or chemically bound into carbonate rocks, such as the limestone and marble that formed in the oceans.
To answer the question about Venus   lack of water, we must return to the early history of the planet.
Bartering was a basic trade mechanism for many thousands of years; often sporadic and usually based on notions of reciprocity, it involved the mutual exchange of commodities or objects between individuals or groups.
British archaeologist Colin Renfrew attributed the dramatic flowering of the Minoan civilization on Crete and through the Aegean to intensified trading contacts and to the impact of olive and vine cultivation on local communities.
Eventually, this led to redistribution systems for luxuries and basic commodities, systems that were organized and controlled by Minoan rulers from their palaces.
As time went on, the self-sufficiency of communities was replaced by mutual dependence.
Thus, intensified trade and interaction, and the flowering of specialist crafts, in a complex process of positive feedback, led to much more complex societies based on palaces, which were the economic hubs of a new Minoan civilization.
For example, he argued that the introduction of domesticated vines and olives allowed a substantial expansion of land under cultivation and helped to power the emergence of complex society.
Many archaeologists and paleobotanists now question this view, pointing out that the available evidence for cultivated vines and olives suggests that they were present only in the later Bronze Age.
Thus, argued Rathje, long-distance trade networks were organized through local ceremonial centers and their leaders.
In time, this organization became a state, and knowledge of its functioning was exportable, as were pottery, tropical bird feathers, specialized stone materials, and other local commodities.
Now that we know much more about ancient exchange and commerce, we know that, because no one aspect of trade was an overriding cause of cultural change or evolution in commercial practices, trade can never be looked on as a unifying factor or as a primary agent of ancient civilization.
There were also the logistics of transportation, the extent of the trading network, and the social and political environment.
Intricate market networks channeled supplies along well-defined routes.
For example, the Grand Canyon, in the southwestern United States, separates the range of the white-tailed antelope squirrel from that of the closely related Harris' antelope squirrel.
Smaller, with a shorter tail that is white underneath, the white-tailed antelope squirrel inhabits deserts north of the canyon and west of the Colorado River in southern California.
Geographic isolation creates opportunities for new species to develop, but it does not necessarily lead to new species because speciation occurs only when the gene pool undergoes enough changes to establish reproductive barriers between the isolated population and its parent population.
The likelihood of allopatric speciation increases when a population is small as well as isolated, making it more likely than a large population to have its gene pool changed substantially.
The species on the Galapagos Islands today, most of which occur nowhere else, descended from organisms that floated, flew, or were blown over the sea from the South American mainland.
For example, some have blamed dinosaur extinction on the development of flowering plants, which were supposedly more difficult to digest and could have caused constipation or indigestionexcept that flowering plants first evolved in the Early Cretaceous, about 60 million years before the dinosaurs died out.
In fact, several scientists have suggested that the duckbill dinosaurs and horned dinosaurs, with their complex battery of grinding teeth, evolved to exploit this new resource of rapidly growing flowering plants.
The K-T event marked the end of the marine reptiles, such as the mosasaurs and the plesiosaurs, which were the largest creatures that had ever lived in the seas and which ruled the seas long before whales evolved.
The Cretaceous extinctions were a global phenomenon, and dinosaurs were just a part of a bigger picture.
Its mass is only one-third as great, which means its density must be only one-third as great as well.
In thinking of ice so far from the Sun, it is important not to judge its behavior from that of the much warmer ice we know on Earth; at the temperatures of the outer solar system, ice on the surface is nearly as hard as rock, and behaves similarly.
About one-quarter of its surface seems to be as old and heavily cratered; the rest formed more recently, as we can tell by the sparse covering of impact craters as well as the relative freshness of the craters.
Ganymede is not a dead world, but rather a place of continuing geological activity powered by an internal heat source.
Extensive mountain ranges were formed from compression of the crust, forming long ridges with parallel valleys spaced one to two kilometers apart.
In some places older impact craters were split and pulled apart.
Possibly the small difference in size and internal heating between the two led to this divergence in their evolution.
Alexander the Great took his Greek armies to the east and in only a few years completed his creation of an empire out of much of southwest Asia In the new empire, barriers to trade and the movement of peoples were removed; markets were put in touch with one another.
Towns and cities were established not only as garrisons (military posts) but as centers for the diffusion of Greek language, literature, and thought, particularly through libraries, as at Antioch (in modern Turkey) and the most famous of all, at Alexandria in Egypt, which would be the finest in the world for the next thousand years.
The focus of life was the agora, the open marketplace where assemblies could be held and where issues of the day, as well as more fundamental topics such as the purpose of government or the relationship between law and freedom, could be discussed and decisions made by individuals in person.
This implied that the city-state was based on the idea that citizens were not specialists but had multiple interests and talents    each a so-called jack-of-all-trades who could engage in many areas of life and politics.
There were getting to be too many persons to know, an easily observable community of interests was being replaced by a multiplicity of interests.
Its gods  such as Zeus, father of the gods, and his wife Hera  were thought of very much as being like human beings but with superhuman abilities.
It is now well established that petroleum migrates through aquifers and can become trapped in reservoirs.
The force of molecular attraction between oil and quartz or carbonate minerals is weaker than that between water and quartz or carbonate minerals.
Using this approach and considering all the sedimentary basins of the world, experts estimate that somewhere between 1,500 and 3,000 billion barrels of oil will eventually be discovered.
When the current approaches the equator, the westward-flowing trade winds cause nutrient-rich cold water along the coast to rise from deeper depths to more shallow ones.
This upwelling of water has economic repercussions.
Every year during the months of December and January, a weak, warm countercurrent replaces the normally cold coastal waters.
Without the upwelling of nutrients from below to feed the fish, fishing comes to a standstill.
During the past 60 years, at least ten El Nifios have been observed Not only do El Niftos affect the temperature of the equatorial Pacific, but the strongest of them impact global weather.
Over 60 years ago, Sir Gilbert Walker, a British scientist, discovered a connection between surface pressure readings at weather stations on the eastern and western sides of the Pacific.
He noted that a rise in atmospheric pressure in the eastern Pacific is usually accompanied by a fall in pressure in the western Pacific and vice versa.
It was later realized that there is a close link between El Nino and the Southern Oscillation.
In fact, the link between the two is so great that they are often referred to jointly as ENSO (El Nino-Southern Oscillation).
During a typical year, the eastern Pacific has a higher pressure than the western Pacific does.
This east-to-west pressure gradient enhances the trade winds over the equatorial waters.
This results in a warm surface current that moves east to west at the equator.
The western Pacific develops a thick, warm layer of water while the eastern Pacific has the cold Humboldt Current enhanced by upwelling.
However, in other years the Southern Oscillation, for unknown reasons, swings in the opposite direction, dramatically changing the usual conditions described above, with pressure increasing in the western.
This change in the pressure gradient causes the trade winds to weaken or, in some cases, to reverse.
This then causes the warm water in the western Pacific to flow eastward, increasing sea-surface temperatures in the central and eastern Pacific.
From such historical evidence we know that El Nirtos have occurred as far back as records go.
Snowstorms in the northeast portion of the United States were more frequent and intense than in most years.
One of the most significant evolutionary events that occurred on Earth was the transition of water-dwelling fish to terrestrial tetrapods (four-limbed organisms with backbones).
However, by the Devonian Period (408 million to 362 million years ago), they had radiated into almost all available aquatic habitats, including freshwater settings.
The delta rocks in which these fossils are found are commonly red due to oxidized iron minerals, indicating that the deltas formed in a climate that had alternate wet and dry periods.
If there were periods of drought, any adaptations allowing the fish to survive the dry conditions would have been advantageous.
It is known that they had lungs as well as gills for breathing.
Gills were undoubtedly the main source of oxygen for these fish, but the lungs served as an auxiliary breathing device for gulping air when the water became oxygen depleted, such as during extended periods of drought.
The fins were thick, fleshy, and quite sturdy, with a median axis of bone down the center.
What ecological pressures might have caused fishes to gradually abandon their watery habitat and become increasingly land-dwelling creatures?
The edges of ponds and streams surely had scattered dead fish and other water-dwelling creatures.
In addition, plants had emerged into terrestrial habitats in areas near streams and ponds, and crabs and other arthropods were also members of this earliest terrestrial community.
Evidence from teeth suggests that these earliest tetrapods did not utilize land plants as food; they were presumably carnivorous and had not developed the ability to feed on plants.
Like early land plants such as rhyniophytes, they made only a partial transition; they were still quite tied to water.
However, many problems that faced early land plants were not applicable to the first tetrapods The ancestors of these animals already had a circulation system, and they were mobile, so that they could move to water to drink.
The principal changes for the earliest tetrapods were in the skeletal system  changes in the bones of the fins, the vertebral column, pelvic girdle, and pectoral girdle.
In 1558 Giovanni Battista Della Porta wrote in his twenty-volume work Magia naturalis (meaning "natural magic") instructions for adding a convex lens to improve the quality of the image thrown against a canvas or panel in the darkened area where its outlines could be traced.
Later, portable camera obscuras were developed, with interior mirrors and drawing tables on which the artist could trace the image.
Mirrors were also used to reverse the projected images to their original positions.
One of the artists whose paintings are being analyzed from this point of view is the great Dutch master, Jan Vermeer, who lived from 1632 to 1675 during the flowering of art and science in the Netherlands, including the science of optics.
From an artist  s point of view, Hockney observed that a camera obscura compresses the complicated forms of a three-dimensional scene into two-dimensional shapes that can easily be traced and also increases the contrast between light and dark, leading to the chiaroscuro effect seen in many of these paintings.
So what are we to conclude?
Many areas of the shallow sea bottom are covered with a lush growth of aquatic flowering plants adapted to live submerged in seawater.
For any given seagrass system, however, the water motion is relatively constant.
Currents are also slowed as they move into the bed.
However, this is not universal and depends on the currents under which the bed exists.
Seagrass beds under the influence of strong currents tend to have many of the lighter particles, including seagrass debris, moved out, whereas beds in weak current areas accumulate lighter detrital material.
Although marine botanist W. A. Setchell suggested early on that temperature was critical to the growth and reproduction of eelgrass, it has since been shown that this particularly widespread seagrass grows and reproduces at temperatures between 2 and 4 degrees Celsius in the Arctic and at temperatures up to 28 degrees Celsius on the northeastern coast of the United States.
Most seagrass beds seem tolerant of considerable changes in salinity (salt levels) and can be found in brackish (somewhat salty) waters as well as in full- strength seawater.
During the peak of the last ice age, northeast Asia (Siberia) and Alaska were connected by a broad land mass called the Bering Land Bridge.
This land bridge existed because so much of Earth  s water was frozen in the great ice sheets that sea levels were over 100 meters lower than they are today.
Between 25,000 and 10,000 years ago, Siberia, the Bering Land Bndge, and Alaska shared many environmental characteristics.
These included a common mammalian fauna of large mammals, a common flora composed of broad grasslands as well as wind-swept dunes and tundra, and a common climate with cold, dry winters and somewhat wanner summers.
The recognition that many aspects of the modem flora and fauna were present on both sides of the Bering Sea as remnants of the ice-age landscape led to this region being named Beringia.
Broad, windswept valleys; glaciated mountains; sparse vegetation; and less moisture created a rather forbidding land mass.
The first was the discovery of a 1,000-square-kilometer preserved patch of Beringian vegetation dating to just over 17,000 years ago  the peak of the last ice age The plants were preserved under a thick ash fall from a volcanic eruption.
Pollen, a powdery substance, which is produced by flowering plants and contains male reproductive cells, is usually carried from plant to plant by insects or birds, but some plants rely on the wind to carry their pollen.
If a number of people in the village were throwing letters off roofs, your friend would be bound to get one.
Since wind-pollinated flowers have no need to attract insects or other animals, they have dispensed with bright petals, nectar, and scent.
These are at best a waste and at worst an impediment to the transfer of pollen in the air The result is insignificant-looking flowers and catkins (dense cylindrical clusters of small, petalless flowers).
Most deciduous wind-pollinated trees (which shed their leaves every fall) produce their pollen in the spring while the branches are bare of leaves to reduce the surrounding surfaces that   compete" with the stigmas (the part of the flower that receives the pollen) for pollen.
Evergreen conifers, which do not shed their leaves, have less to gain from spring flowering, and, indeed, some flower in the autumn or winter.
Pollen is shed primarily when the air is dry to prevent too much sticking to wet surfaces or being knocked out of the air by rain.
Despite these adaptations, much of the pollen fails to leave the top branches, and only between 0.5 percent and 40 percent gets more than 100 meters away from the parent.
In the near-surface layers, there are many large, fast carnivores as well as an immense variety of planktonic animals, which feed on plankton (small, free-floating plants or animals) by filtering them from currents of water that pass through a specialized anatomical structure These filter-feeders thrive in the well-illuminated surface waters because oceans have so many very small organisms, from bacteria to large algae to larval crustaceans.
Sardines and anchovies provide the basis for huge commercial fisheries as well as a food resource for large numbers of local carnivores, particularly seabirds.
There are, therefore, fewer successful filter-feeders in deep water, and some of those that are there have larger filtering systems to cope with the scarcity of particles.
Another consequence of the limited availability of prey is that many animals have developed ways of coping with much larger food particles, relative to their own body size, than the equivalent shallower species can process.
It was in Egypt and Mesopotamia (modern-day Iraq) that civilization arose, and it is there that we find the earliest examples of that key feature of civilization, writing.
The Egyptians were not far behind in developing writing, but we cannot follow the history of their writing in detail because they used a perishable writing material.
In ancient times the banks of the Nile were lined with papyrus plants, and from the papyrus reeds the Egyptians made a form of paper; it was excellent in quality but, like any paper, fragile.
Clay, moreover, is cheap, and forming it into tablets is easy, factors that helped the clay tablet become the preferred writing material not only throughout Mesopotamia but far outside it as well, in Syria, Asia Minor, Persia, and even for a while in Crete and Greece.
This script consists of simple shapes, basically just wedge shapes and lines that could easily be incised in soft clay with a reed or wooden stylus; scholars have dubbed it cuneiform from the wedge-shaped marks (cunei in Latin) that are its hallmark Although the ingredients are merely wedges and lines, there are hundreds of combinations of these basic forms that stand for different sounds or words.
For the scribes of these non-Sumerian languages, training was doubly demanding since they had to know the values of the various cuneiform signs for Sumerian as well as for their own language.
These records of factual matters were kept in storage to be available for reference-they were, in effect, files, or, to use the term preferred by specialists in the ancient Near East, archives.
Across regular, well- defined trade routes along the Baltic and North seas, the ships of league cities carried furs, wax, copper, fish, grain, timber, and wine.
These goods were exchanged for finished products, mainly cloth and salt, from western cities.
The commercial revolution created a great deal of new wealth, which meant a higher standard of living.
The existence of wealth did not escape the attention of kings and other rulers.
In the years to come, alliances with the middle classes were to enable kings to weaken aristocratic interests and build the states that came to be called modern.
The commercial changes of the eleventh through fourteenth centuries did however, lay the economic foundation for the development of urban life and culture.
An ecosystem could survive the loss of some species, but if enough species were lost, the ecosystem would be severely degraded.
A good illustration of this occurred after sea otters were eliminated from some Pacific kelp (seaweed) bed ecosystems: the kelp beds were practically obliterated too because in the absence of sea otter predation, sea urchin populations exploded and consumed most of the kelp and other macroalgae.
First, if there are more species in an ecosystem, then its food web will be more complex, with greater redundancy among species in terms of their nutritional roles.
Third, in a species-rich ecosystem, diseases may spread more slowly because most species will be relatively less abundant, thus increasing the average distance between individuals of the same species and hampering disease transmission among individuals.
One of the first studies to provide data supporting a relationship between diversity and stability examined how grassland plants responded to a drought.
Plots with more than ten species had about half as much biomass in 1988 as in 1986, whereas those with fewer than five species only produced roughly one-eighth as much biomass after the two-year drought.
Apparently, species-rich plots were likely to contain some drought-resistant plant species that grew better in drought years, compensating for the poor growth of less-tolerant species.
The Minnesota grassland research has been widely accepted as strong evidence for the diversity- stability theory; however, its findings have been questioned, and similar studies on other ecosystems have not always found a positive relationship between diversity and stability.
In the end, despite insightful attempts to detect some general patterns, we may find it very difficult to reduce this topic to a simple, universal truth.
Cultural influences were of three types: the bringing of objects, the transfer of craft workers, and the introduction of massive civil architecture.
Many objects were not art in even the broadest sense and comprised utilitarian items of clothing, utensils, and equipment.
Mass-produced goods were accompanied by fewer more aesthetically impressive objects such as statuettes.
Such pieces perhaps first came with officials for their own religious worship; others were then acquired by native leaders as diplomatic gifts or by purchase.
The magnificent temple built beside the sacred spring at Bath was constructed only about twenty years after the conquest.
As many of the officials in Britain had strong links with Gaul, it is not surprising that early Roman Britain owes much to craft workers from that area.
The spaces inside even the largest roundhouses were modest, and the use of rounded shapes and organic building materials gave buildings a human scale.
This was an architecture of dominance in which subject peoples were literally made to feel small by buildings that epitomized imperial power.
Some tropical termites are more ingenious engineers, constructing huge above-ground nests with built-in   air conditioning   that keeps the nest moist, at a constant temperature, and well supplied with oxygen.
But how is this well-insulated nest ventilated?
The answer lies in the construction of the nest.
However, in addition to corals there are enormous quantities of algae, some calcareous, which help to build the reefs.
Coral reefs have fascinated scientists for almost 200 years, and some of the most pertinent observations of them were made in the 1830s by Charles Darwin on the voyage of the Beagle.
He recognized that there were three major kinds: fringing reefs, barrier reefs, and atolls; and he saw that they were related to each other in a logical and gradational sequence.
Between the fringing reef and the land there is sometimes a small channel or lagoon.
A long time after Darwin put forward this theory, some deep boreholes were drilled in the Pacific atolls in the 1950s.
The drill holes passed through more than a thousand meters of coral before reaching the rock substratum of the ocean floor, and indicated that the coral had been growing upward for tens of millions of years as Earth's crust subsided at a rate of between 15 and 51 meters per million years.
Their diversity of coral genera is greatest in the warm waters of the Indian Ocean and the western Pacific.
In the Western experience, commerce provided the conditions that allowed industrialization to get started, which in turn led to growth in science, technology, industry, transport, communications, social change, and the like that we group under the broad term of   development.
However, the massive increase in population that in Europe was at first attributed to industrialization starting in the eighteenth century occurred also and at the same period in China, even though there was no comparable industrialization.
The transition between the Ming and Qing dynasties (the seventeenth century) may have seen a decline, but from 1741 to 1851 the annual figures rose steadily and spectacularly, perhaps beginning with 143 million and ending with 432 million.
If we accept these totals, we are confronted with a situation in which the Chinese population doubled in the 50 years from 1790 to 1840.
If, with greater caution, we assume lower totals in the early eighteenth century and only 400 million in 1850, we still face a startling fact: something like a doubling of the vast Chinese population in the century before Western contact, foreign trade, and industrialization could have had much effect.
To explain this sudden increase we cannot point to factors constant in Chinese society but must find conditions or a combination of factors that were newly effective in this period.
Assuming that China  s population in 1400 was about 80 million, the economist Dwight Perkins concludes that its growth to 700 million or more in the 1960s was made possible by a steady increase in the grain supply, which evidently grew five or six times between 1400 and 1800 and rose another 50 percent between 1800 and 1965.
This increase of food supply was due perhaps half to the increase of cultivated area, particularly by migration and settlement in the central and western provinces, and half to greater productivity  the farmers   success in raising more crops per unit of land.
New crops such as corn (maize) and sweet potatoes as well as peanuts and tobacco were introduced from the Americas.
The sweet potato, growing in sandy soil and providing more food energy per unit of land than other crops, became the main food of the poor in much of the South China rice area.
Determining what extinct dinosaurs ate is difficult, but we can infer some aspects of their dietary preferences.
Traditionally, this information has been derived from direct evidence, such as stomach contents, and indirect evidence, such as establishing a correlation between particular body characteristics and diets of living animals and then inferring habits for dinosaurs. 
The jaw joint of carnivores such as dogs and cats has the mechanical advantage of being at the same level as the tooth row, allowing the jaws to close with tremendous speed and forcing the upper teeth to occlude against the lower teeth with great precision.
Because the flat teeth of herbivores work like grindstones, however, the jaws mush move both side to side and front to back.
If we extend such observations to extinct dinosaurs, we can infer dietary preferences (such as carnivory and herbivory), even though we cannot determine the exact diet.
Stomach contents are only rarely preserved, but when present, allow us to determine exactly what these animals were eating.
At one time, these were thought to represent embryonic animals, suggesting that this small dinosaur gave birth to live young rather than laying eggs.
Further research indicated that the small dinosaurs were too large and too well developed to be prehatchling young.
In addition, the juveniles inside the body cavity were of different sizes.
In a few rare cases, most of them   mummies   (unusually well preserved specimens), fossilized plant remains have been found inside the body cavity of hadrosaurs.
Study of coprolites has indicated that the diets of some herbivorous dinosaurs were relatively diverse, while other dinosaurs appear to have been specialists, feeding on particular types of plants.
However, before we look at its influence, let  s see how the heat island actually forms.
Depending on the location, time of year, and time of day, any or all of the following differences between cities and their surroundings can be important: albedo (reflectivity of the surface), surface roughness, emissions of heat, emissions of moisture, and emissions of particles that affect net radiation and the growth of cloud droplets.
Additional city heat is given off at night (and during the day) by vehicles and factories, as well as by industrial and domestic heating and cooling units.
Pollutants from urban areas may even affect the weather downwind from them.
These have changed constantly through time, even in relatively recent periods, as can be seen from the Neolithic stone circle of Er Lannic, in Brittany, France (once inland but now half submerged on an island) or medieval villages in east Yorkshire, England, that have tumbled into the sea in the last few centuries as the North Sea gnaws its way westward and erodes the cliffs.
Conversely, silts deposited by rivers sometimes push the sea farther back, creating new land, as at Ephesus in western Turkey, a port on the coast in Roman times but today some five kilometers inland.
Falls in sea level often exposed a number of important land bridges, such as those linking Alaska to northeast Asia and Britain to northwest Europe, a phenomenon with far reaching effects not only on human colonization of the globe but also on the environment as a whole-the flora and fauna of isolated or insular areas were radically and often irreversibly affected.
Between Alaska and Asia today lies the Bering Strait, which is so shallow that a fall in sea level of only four meters would turn it into a land bridge.
When the ice sheets were at their greatest extent some 18,000 years ago (the glacier maximum), it is thought that the fall was about 120 meters, which therefore created not merely a bridge but a vast plain, 1,000 kilometers from the north to the south, which has been called Beringia.
Raised beaches are remnants of former coastlines at higher levels relative to the present shoreline and visible, for instance, along the Californian coast north of San Francisco, the height of a raised beach above the present shoreline, however, does not generally give a straightforward indication of the height of a former sea level.
Isostatic uplift of the land occurs when the weight of ice is removed as temperatures rise, as at the end of an ice age; it has affected coastlines, for example, in Scandinavia, Scotland, Alaska, and Newfoundland during the postglacial period.
Between 200 B.C and A.D 300, this was supplemented by vellum, calf skin treated and then smoothed by pumice stone.
In the years 1446-1448, two German goldsmiths, Johannes Gutenberg and Johann Fust, made use of cheap paper to introduce a critical improvement in the way written pages were reproduced.
It had three merits: it could be used repeatedly until worn out; it was cast in metal from a mold and so could be renewed without difficulty; and it made lettering uniform.
Europe in the fifteenth century was a place where intermediate technology-that is, workshops with skilled craftspeople-was well established and spreading fast, especially in Germany and Italy.
Such workshops were able to take on printing easily, and it thus became Europe's first true industry.
Works of reference were also in demand.
Presses sprang up in several German cities, and by 1470, Nuremberg, Germany had established itself as the center of the international publishing trade, printing books from 24 presses and distributing them at trade fairs all over western and central Europe.
Although there was no competition between the technologies, there was rivalry between nations.
Hence, although the Germans made use of the paper revolution to introduce movable type, the Italians went far to regain the initiative by their artistry.
By 1500 there were printing firms in 60 German cities, but there were 150 presses in Venice along.
However, since many nations and governments wanted their own presses, the trade quickly became international.
Before printing, only the very largest libraries, of which there were a dozen in Europe, had as many as 600 books.
The total number of books on the entire Continent was well under 100,000.
But by 1500, after only 45 years of the printed book, there were 9 million in circulation.
Both exports and imports showed spectacular growth, particularly in England and France.
Europe  s economic institutions, particularly those in England, were strong, had wealth available for new investment, and seemed almost to be waiting for some technological breakthrough that would expand their profit-making potential even more.
Internally, Britain was endowed with easily navigable natural waterway, which helped its trade and communication with the world.
As well as cottage workers, who had the potential of being more mobile than peasants of some other countries.
Eventually they found their way to the cities or mining communities and provided the human power upon which the Industrial Revolution was built.
The British people were also consumers; the absence of internal tariffs, such as those that existed in France or Italy or between the German states, made Britain the largest free-trade area in Europe.
Among them were a large number of nonconformists whose religious principles encouraged thrift and industry rather than luxurious living and who tended to pour their profits back into their business, thus providing the basis for continued expansion.
Ideas about agricultural reform developed first in Holland, where as early as the mid-seventeenth century, such modern methods as crop rotation, heavy fertilization, and diversification were all in use.
Dutch peasant farmers were known throughout Europe for their agricultural innovations, but as British markets and opportunities grew, the English quickly learned from them.
As early as the seventeenth century the Dutch were helping them drain marshes and fens where, with the help of advanced techniques, they grew new crops.
By the mid-eighteenth century new agricultural methods as well as selective breeding of livestock had caught on throughout the country.
At the same time, people were moving to the city, partly because of the enclosure movement; that is, the fencing of common fields and pastures in order to provide more compact, efficient privately held agricultural parcels that would produce more goods and greater profits.
In the sixteenth century enclosures were usually used for creating sheep pastures, but by the eighteenth century new farming techniques made it advantageous for large landowners to seek enclosures in order to improve agricultural production.
Between 1714 and 1820 over 6 million acres of English land were enclosed.
As a result, many small, independent farmers were forced to sell out simply because they could not compete.
Nonlandholding peasants and cottage workers, who worked for wages and grazed cows or pigs on the village common, were also hurt when the common was no longer available.
