Sediments are also dropped where a river slows on entering a lake or the sea, the deposited sediments are on a lake floor or the seafloor at first, but will be located inland at some future date, when the sea level falls or the land rises; such beds are sometimes thousands of meters thick.
In many semiarid areas there is also a lower timberline where the forest passes into steppe or desert at its lower edge, usually because of a lack of moisture.
There are some areas, however, where broadleaf deciduous trees form the timberline.
Late-lying snow reduces the effective growing season to the point where seedlings cannot establish themselves.
In an area where low temperatures are limiting to life, the importance of the additional heat near the surface is crucial.
The fossil was officially named Pakicetus in honor of the country where the discovery was made.
On land, where it probably bred and gave birth, Ambulocetus may have moved around very much like a modern sea lion.
The expansion of desert-like conditions into areas where they did not previously exist is called desertification.
The raising of livestock is a major economic activity in semiarid lands, where grasses are generally the dominant type of natural vegetation.
In areas where considerable soil still remains, though, a rigorously enforced program of land protection and cover-crop planting may make it possible to reverse the present deterioration of the surface. 
The cinema did not emerge as a form of mass consumption until its technology evolved from the initial "peepshow" format to the point where images were projected on a screen in a darkened theater.
Previously, large audiences had viewed spectacles at the theater, where vaudeville, popular dramas, musical and minstrel shows, classical plays, lectures, and slide-and-lantern shows had been presented to several hundred spectators at a time.
Today technology has progressed to the point where it is possible to invent new building materials to suit the type of structure desired.
It works in compression to divert the weight above it out to the sides, where the weight is borne by the vertical elements on either side of the arch.
The situation is most critical in Texas, where the climate is driest, the greatest amount of water is being pumped, and the aquifer contains the least water.
Some oil lies under regions where drilling is forbidden, such as national parks or other public lands.
Many are found in tropical and subtropical areas of the world, where accumulation of high concentrations of metals may afford some protection against plant-eating insects and microbial pathogens.
Only the last of these was suited at all to the continuous operating of machines, and although waterpower abounded in Lancashire and Scotland and ran grain mills as well as textile mills, it had one great disadvantage: streams flowed where nature intended them to, and water-driven factories had to be located on their banks whether or not the location was desirable for other reasons.
As a result of crustal adjustments and faulting, the Strait of Gibraltar, where the Mediterranean now connects to the Atlantic, opened, and water cascaded spectacularly back into the Mediterranean.
In all probability it was the fertile plain of Latium, where the Latins who founded Rome originated, that created the habits and skills of landed settlement, landed property, landed economy, landed administration, and a land-based society.
Unlike in the Americas, where metallurgy was a very late and limited development, Africans had iron from a relatively early date, developing ingenious furnaces to produce the high heat needed for production and to control the amount of air that reached the carbon and iron ore necessary for making iron.
A 2003 Mars Global Surveyor image shows what mission specialists think may be a delta  a fan-shaped network of channels and sediments where a river once flowed into a larger body of water, in this case a lake filling a crater in the southern highlands.
They were designed to be put in places where these beings could manifest themselves in order to be the recipients of ritual actions.
Other statues were designed to be placed within an architectural setting, for instance, in front of the monumental entrance gateways to temples known as pylons, or in pillared courts, where they would be placed against or between pillars: their frontality worked perfectly within the architectural context.
One possibility is that a noisy baby bird provides accurate signals of its real hunger and good health, making it worthwhile for the listening parent to give it food in a nest where several other offspring are usually available to be fed.
In the few cases where an Ice Age figure is depicted holding something, it is mostly, though not always, in the right hand.
Flats and depressions where water can collect are common features, but they make up only a small part of the landscape.
Endogenous rivers often do not reach the sea but drain into inland basins, where the water evaporates or is lost in the ground.
The second technique relies on evoked potentials, which are electrical brain responses that may be related to a particular stimulus because of where they originate.
From north to south in the Yucatan Peninsula, where the Maya lived, rainfall ranges from 18 to 100 inches (457 to 2,540 millimeters) per year, and the soils become thicker, so that the southern peninsula was agriculturally more productive and supported denser populations.
Making matters worse, most of the Yucatan Peninsula consists of karst, a porous sponge-like limestone terrain where rain runs straight into the ground and where little or no surface water remains available.
Glaciers are slowly moving masses of ice that have accumulated on land in areas where more snowfalls during a year than melts.
Records show merchant caravans and trading posts set up by the Sumerians in the surrounding mountains and deserts of Persia and Arabia, where they traded grain for raw materials, such as timber and stones, as well as for metals and gems.
As among tribespeople, personal relationships and a careful weighing of character have always been crucial in a mercantile economy with little regulation, where one's word is one's bond and where informal ties of trust cement together an international trade network.
Nor have merchants and artisans ever had much tolerance for aristocratic professions of moral superiority, favoring instead an egalitarian ethic of the open market, where steady hard work, the loyalty of one's fellows, and entrepreneurial skill make all the difference.
Yet both chemists were sufficiently farsighted to leave gaps where their analyses of periodic physical and chemical properties indicated that new elements should be located.
Because there is no space in the periodic table between these two elements, Mendeleyev suggested that the atomic mass of indium be changed to a completely different value, where it would fill an empty space between cadmium and tin.
In forests, visual signals can be seen only at short distances, where they are not obstructed by trees.
It exported 80 percent of its butter, almost all to Great Britain, where it accounted for 40 percent of British butter imports.
This accords with anecdotal evidence that people often yawn in situations where they are neither tired nor bored, but are preparing for impending mental and physical activity.
The reverse process brought young men to Britain, where many continued to live after their 20 to 25 years of service, and this added to the cosmopolitan Roman character of the frontier population.
In the middle of the nineteenth century, Louis Agassiz, one of the first scientists to study glaciers, immigrated to the United States from Switzerland and became a professor at Harvard University, where he continued his studies in geology and other sciences.
They could trace the growth and shrinkage of continental glaciers, even in parts of the ocean where there may have been no great change in temperature  around the equator, for example.
For the next 1,500 years, its inhabitants enjoyed a somewhat warmer and damper climate than today, living in a well-wooded steppe area where wild cereal grasses were abundant.
Many complex factors led to the adoption of the new economies, not only at Abu Hureyra, but at many other locations such as 'Ain Ghazal, also in Syria, where goat toe bones showing the telltale marks of abrasion caused by foot tethering (binding) testify to early herding of domestic stock.
However, the chances of escaping complete destruction are vastly improved if the organism happens to have a mineralized skeleton and dies in a place where it can be quickly buried by sediment.
Both of these conditions are often found on the ocean floors, where shelled invertebrates (organisms without spines) flourish and are covered by the continuous rain of sedimentary particles.
The shale was deposited in an oxygen-deficient lake where lethal gases sometimes bubbled up and killed animals.
The latter two sources are limited to those few areas where surface water seeps down through underground faults or fractures to reach deep rocks heated by the recent activity of molten rock material.
Although the potential is enormous, it is likely that in the near future geothermal energy can make important local contributions only where the resource is close to the user and the economics are favorable, as they are in California, New Zealand, and Iceland.
It is the dominant native species of the lower salt marshes along these coasts, where it grows in the intertidal zone (the area covered by water some parts of the day and exposed others).
These characteristics make Spartina a valuable component of the estuaries where it occurs naturally.
Once established, a stand of Spartina begins to trap sediment, changing the substrate elevation, and eventually the stand evolves into a high marsh system where Spartina is gradually displaced by higher-elevation, brackish-water species.
All the heat that warms a building eventually transfers to the surrounding air, a process that is quickest where houses are poorly insulated.
The produce was then transported by water to markets in the cities, where the consumption of fruit and vegetables was no longer restricted to the wealthy.
First, Venic's intermediary functions in the Adriatic Sea, where it had dominated the business of shipping for other parties, were lost to direct trading.
When the work was completed, many moved to other construction jobs or to factory work in cities and towns, where they became part of an expanding working class.
This has been interpreted as the remains of a workshop where molten metal was scooped up from the channel and poured into molds in the holes.
The plates have edges that are spreading ridges (where two plates are moving apart and new seafloor is being created), subduction zones (where two plates collide and one plunges beneath the other),or transform faults(where two plates neither converge nor diverge but merely move past one another).It is at the boundaries between plates that most of Earth  s volcanism and earthquake activity occur.
In some cases, the water table reaches Earth's surface, where it is expressed as rivers, lakes, and marshes.Typically, though, the water table may be tens or hundreds of meters below the surface.The water table is not flat but usually follows the contours of the topography.
As recently as 6000 B.C., the southern frontier of the desert was far to the north of where it is now, while semiarid grassland and shallow freshwater lakes covered much of what are now arid plains.
This was a landscape where antelope of all kinds abounded  along with Bos primigenius, a kind of oxen that has become extinct.
By this time, the Saharan people were probably using domestic crops, experimenting with such summer rainfall crops as sorghum and millet as they moved out of areas where they could grow wheat, barley, and other Mediterranean crops.
This abundance is notable in Roman settlements (especially urban sites) where the labor that archaeologists have to put into the washing and sorting of potsherds (fragments of pottery) constitutes a high proportion of the total work during the initial phases of excavation.
But maps that show the various spots where Roman pottery of a particular type has been found tell only part of the story.
We do not know who invented this machine, or where.
When burning occurs, it prevents competition among plant species from progressing to the point where some species exclude others, reducing the overall diversity of the ecosystem.
Success in colonization depends to a great extent on there being a site available for colonization---a safe site where disturbance by fire or by cutting down of trees has either removed competing species or reduced levels of competition and other negative interactions to a level at which the invading species can become established.
This is particularly important for species that colonize an environment where there is no existing vegetation to ameliorate climatic extremes and in which there maybe great climatic diversity.
Stingless bees are abundant in tropical and subtropical environments, where they gather nectar and pollen from a wide variety of flowers.
Most were made for sale on the open market, and cities boasted special souks(markets) where books were bought and sold.
These plants usually occur where ants are abundant, most in the tropics but some in temperate areas.
Caterpillars devour the ovaries, where the seeds are produced, and seed beetle larvae eat seeds as they burrow in developing fruits.
Bentley compared the seed production of six plants that grew where there were no ants with that of seventeen plants that were occupied by ants.
For example, in highly acidic soils where few bacteria can survive, fungi frequently become the chief decomposers of organic matter. 
Below that was the final zone in Forbes  s scheme, zone nine, a zone that covered most of the ocean floor and thus most of the solid surface of Earth: Forbes called this the azoic zone, where no animal, to say nothing of plants, could survive. 
This may be either to establish a new population where a population of conspecifics ( animals or plants belonging to the same species) has become extinct or to add individuals to an existing population.
In a fragmented landscape where many populations and habitats are isolated from others, translocations can play an effective role in conservation strategies; they can increase the number of existing populations or increase the size, genetic diversity, and demographic balance of a small population, consequently increasing its chances of survival. 
The release site was an area where local hunting had reduced the density of the resident howler population.
By now, their numbers have undoubtedly grown even more, as they have continued to expand into new habitats where they were once either rare or absent, such as sandy prairies, deserts, coastal marshes, and mountains.
Crop plants are sometimes grown in areas where weedy relatives also live.
In the wetter eastern United States, dead trees rot away more quickly than in the drier West, where more dead trees persist like giant matchsticks.
Where conditions are most suitable for plant growth  that is, where temperatures are relatively high and uniform and where there is an ample supply of water-one usually finds large masses of vegetation.
Physiological adaptations can assist amphibians in colonizing habitats where extreme conditions prevail.
It coexists with hochxo ("ugliness," or "evil," and "disorder") in a world where opposing forces of dynamism and stability create constant change.
As relative newcomers to the Southwest, a place where their climate, neighbors, and rulers could be equally inhospitable, the Navajo created these art forms to affect the world around them, not just through the recounting of the actions symbolized, but through the beauty and harmony of the artworks themselves.
The Maya lived in a relatively uniform environment, where every community suffered from the same resource deficiencies.
The focus of life was the agora, the open marketplace where assemblies could be held and where issues of the day, as well as more fundamental topics such as the purpose of government or the relationship between law and freedom, could be discussed and decisions made by individuals in person.
Knowing how much oil has been found in an intensively drilled area, such as eastern Texas, experts make estimates of probable volumes in other regions where rock types and structures are similar to those in eastern Texas.
In 1558 Giovanni Battista Della Porta wrote in his twenty-volume work Magia naturalis (meaning "natural magic") instructions for adding a convex lens to improve the quality of the image thrown against a canvas or panel in the darkened area where its outlines could be traced.
This damping effect can be significant to the point where just one meter into a seagrass bed the wave motion can be reduced to zero.
On this archaeologists generally agree, but that is where the agreement stops One broad area of disagreement in explaining the peopling of the Americas is the domain of paleoecologists, but it is critical to understanding human history: what was Beringia like?
The drawback is that wind is obviously unspecific as to where it takes the pollen.
For the relatively few dominant tree species that make up temperate forests, where there are many individuals of the same species within pollen range, this is quite a safe gamble.
By contrast, in the tropics, where each tree species has few, widely scattered individuals, the chance of wind blowing pollen to another individual is sufficiently slim that animals are a safer bet as transporters of pollen.
Another solution for such animals is to forage in particular layers of water where the particles may be more concentrated.
Coral reefs are found where the ocean water temperature is not less than 21   C, where there is a firm substratum, and where the seawater is not rendered too dark by excessive amounts of river-borne sediment.
Corn, for instance, can be grown on the dry soil and marginal hill land of North China, where it is used for food, fuel, and fodder and provides something like one-seventh of the food energy available in the area.
In cities, where less vegetation and exposed soil exist, the majority of the Sun  s energy is absorbed by urban structures and asphalt.
If there are major industrial areas along the outskirts, pollutants are carried into the heat of town, where they tend to concentrate.
Even in England, where technology lagged far behind, a sheet of paper, or eight octavo pages, cost only a penny by the fifteenth century. 
Europe in the fifteenth century was a place where intermediate technology-that is, workshops with skilled craftspeople-was well established and spreading fast, especially in Germany and Italy.
The old monastic scriptoria-monastery workshops where monks copied texts by hand-worked closely alongside the new presses, continuing to produce the luxury goods that movable-type printing could not yet supply.
The breakthrough came in Great Britain, where several economic advantages created a climate especially favorable to the encouraged of new technology.
Ideas about agricultural reform developed first in Holland, where as early as the mid-seventeenth century, such modern methods as crop rotation, heavy fertilization, and diversification were all in use.
As early as the seventeenth century the Dutch were helping them drain marshes and fens where, with the help of advanced techniques, they grew new crops.
