Why did theater develop, and why was it valued after it ceased to fulfill the function of ritual?
There is still no universally agreed-on explanation for why there should be such a dramatic cessation of tree growth at the upper timberline.
Perhaps, like many contemporary peoples, Upper Paleolithic men and women believed that the drawing of a human image could cause death or injury, and if that were indeed their belief, it might explain why human figures are rarely depicted in cave art.
But if improving their hunting luck was the chief motivation for the paintings, it is difficult to explain why only a few show signs of having been speared.
Physiological immaturity may be part of why infants and toddlers do not form extremely enduring memories, even when they hear stories that promote such remembering in preschoolers.
Were they salt domes such as are common along the United States Gulf Coast, and if so, why should there have been so much solid crystalline salt beneath the floor of the Mediterranean? 
How did this tremendous development take place, and why did it happen in the Teotihuac  n Valley?
No one knows why.
If true, though, why did cold-blooded animals such as snakes, lizards, turtles, and crocodiles survive the freezing winters and torrid summers?
It  s hard to understand why they would not be affected, whereas dinosaurs were left too crippled to cope, especially if, as some scientists believe, dinosaurs were warm-blooded.
Critics also point out that the shallow seaways had retreated from and advanced on the continents numerous times during the Mesozoic, so why did the dinosaurs survive the climatic changes associated with the earlier fluctuations but not with this one?
Without this knowledge we can appreciate only the formal content of Egyptian art, and we will fail to understand why it was produced or the concepts that shaped it and caused it to adopt its distinctive forms.
And why did they not discover the geometric perspective as European artists did in the Renaissance?
The question is not why they would leave the cold of winter so much as how they find their way around.
But the question arises, why don't nestlings beg loudly when they aren't all that hungry?
While that made things hard for ancient Maya living in the south, it has also made things hard for modern archaeologists who have difficulty understanding why ancient droughts caused bigger problems in the wet south than in the dry north.
It is the use of horses for transportation and warfare that explains why Inner Eurasian pastoralism proved the most mobile and the most militaristic of all major forms of pastoralism.
The remarkable mobility and range of pastoral societies explain, in part, why so many linguists have argued that the Indo-European languages began their astonishing expansionist career not among farmers in Anatolia (present-day Turkey), but among early pastoralists from Inner Eurasia.
That is why a gull can stand on an ice floe without freezing.
This process explains why the top of the cloud becomes positively charged, while the center becomes negatively charged.
That is why the subsequent lightning that follows the completed channel often strikes a tall structure.
It also explains why some of the forts continued in occupation long after Rome ceased to have any formal authority in Britain, at the beginning of the fifth century A.D.
The question of why infantile amnesia occurs has intrigued psychologists for decades, especially in light of ample evidence that infants and young children can display impressive memory capabilities.
Given all the disadvantages of living in aggregated towns, why did people in the thirteenth century move into these closely packed quarters?
Exactly why animals play is still a matter debated in the research literature, and the reasons may not be the same for every species that plays.
This, they thought, was language fit for the gods, which explains why it was carved on walls of pyramids and other religious structures.
Many explanations have been proposed for why dinosaurs became extinct.
This process helps explain why both tend to be more frequent over cities.
