Having little understanding of natural causes, it attributes both desirable and undesirable occurrences to supernatural or magical forces, and it searches for means to win the favor of these forces.
As the snow is deeper and lasts longer in the valleys, trees tend to attain greater heights on the ridges, even though they are more exposed to high-velocity winds and poor, thin soils there.
Late-lying snow reduces the effective growing season to the point where seedlings cannot establish themselves.
Probably the most important environmental factor is temperature, for if the growing season is too short and temperatures are too low, tree shoots and buds cannot mature sufficiently to survive the winter months.
This enables them to avoid the worst rigors of high winds and permits them to make use of the higher temperatures immediately adjacent to the ground surface.
The low growth form can also permit the plants to take advantage of the insulation provided by a winter snow cover.
Desertification is accomplished primarily through the loss of stabilizing natural vegetation and the subsequent accelerated erosion of the soil by wind and water.
Since the raising of most crops necessitates the prior removal of the natural vegetation, crop failures leave extensive tracts of land devoid of a plant cover and susceptible to wind and water erosion. 
The extreme seriousness of desertification results from the vast areas of land and the tremendous numbers of people affected, as well as from the great difficulty of reversing or even slowing the process.
The doorways and windows are made possible by placing over the open spaces thick stone beams that support the weight from above.
The incentive of the farmers who wish to conserve water is reduced by their knowledge that many of their neighbors are profiting by using great amounts of water, and in the process are drawing down the entire region  s water supplies.
Alternatively, stability can be defined as the speed with which an ecosystem returns to a particular form following a major disturbance, such as a fire.
Once a redwood forest matures, for example, the kinds of species and the number of individuals growing on the forest floor are reduced.
Even with snow on the ground, the high bushy understory is exposed; also snow and wind bring down leafy branches of cedar, hemlock, red alder, and other arboreal fodder. 
To keep 40 people alive that winter, they consumed approximately 150 elk and 20 deer.
Wildlife zoologist Helmut Buechner(1953), in reviewing the nature of biotic changes in Washington through recorded time, says that "since the early 1940s, the state has had more deer than at any other time in its history, the winter population fluctuating around approximately 320,000 deer (mule and black-tailed deer), which will yield about 65,000 of either sex and any age annually for an indefinite period."
Perhaps, like many contemporary peoples, Upper Paleolithic men and women believed that the drawing of a human image could cause death or injury, and if that were indeed their belief, it might explain why human figures are rarely depicted in cave art.
This theory is suggested by evidence of chips in the painted figures, perhaps made by spears thrown at the drawings.
Typically, older leaves are affected first as the phosphorus is mobilized to young growing tissue.
Much of the research on nutrient deficiencies is based on growing plants hydroponically, that is, in soilless liquid nutrient solutions.
Hydroponics has applications beyond basic research, since it facilitates the growing of greenhouse vegetables during winter.
Aeroponics, a technique in which plants are suspended and the roots misted with a nutrient solution, is another method for growing plants without soil.
In 1947 Norwegian adventurer Thor Heyerdahl drifted on a balsa-log raft westward with the winds and currents across the Pacific from South America to prove his theory that Pacific islanders were Native Americans (also called American Indians).
Contrary to these theorists, the overwhelming evidence of physical anthropology, linguistics, and archaeology shows that the Pacific islanders came from Southeast Asia and were skilled enough as navigators to sail against the prevailing winds and currents.
Detailed studies of the winds and currents using computer simulations suggest that drifting canoes would have been a most unlikely means of colonizing the Pacific.
There were three sources of power: animal or human muscles; the wind, operating on sail or windmill; and running water.
By following the fossils, Smith was able to put all the strata of England's earth into relative temporal sequence.
In the days following, samples of solid gypsum were repeatedly brought on deck as drilling operations penetrated the seafloor.
Interbedded with the salt were thin layers of what appeared to be windblown silt.
Finally, the growing population was probably fed by increasing the number and size of irrigated fields.
All this led to increased wealth, which in turn would attract more immigrants to Teotihuac  n. The growing power of the elite, who controlled the economy, would give them the means to physically coerce people to move to Teotihuac  n and serve as additions to the labor force.
More irrigation works would have to be built to feed the growing population, and this resulted in more power and wealth for the elite.
The summers were not too warm, nor the winters too frigid.
Over a period of about 100,000 years, while the seas pulled back, climates around the world became dramatically more extreme: warmer days, cooler nights; hotter summers, colder winters.
If true, though, why did cold-blooded animals such as snakes, lizards, turtles, and crocodiles survive the freezing winters and torrid summers?
Support is growing for the alternative theory that people using watercraft, possibly skin boats, moved southward from Beringia along the Gulf of Alaska and then southward along the Northwest coast of North America possibly as early as 16,000 years ago.
Sometimes they are carried farther afield by water or by wind.
In some angiosperms the seeds are equipped with gossamer wings, like the dandelion and milkweed seeds.
What we do know is that as we include longer time intervals, the record shows increasing evidence of slow swings in climate between different regimes.
There is a growing body of opinion that both these physical variations have a measurable impact on the climate.
Unlike short-term financial cooperation between investors for a single commercial undertaking, joint-stock companies provided permanent funding of capital by drawing on the investments of merchants and other investors who purchased shares in the company.
To North Americans, the robins simply vacation in the south each winter.
Furthermore, they fly to very specific places in South America and will often come back to the same trees in North American yards the following spring.
The question is not why they would leave the cold of winter so much as how they find their way around.
This is useful for irrigation, but the high temperatures, low humidities, and different day lengths of the dry season, compared to the normal growing season, can present difficulties with some crops.
Regularly flowing rivers and streams that originate within arid lands are known as "endogenous."
More often, we simply cooperate with others to reach some end without endowing the relationship with any larger significance.
Should the use of rewards fail, members can frequently win by rejecting or threatening to ostracize those who deviate from the primary group's norms.
Each of these methods compares an infant's state prior to the introduction of a stimulus with its state during or immediately following the stimulus.
For example, if a uniformly moving pattern of some sort is passed across the visual field of a neonate (newborn), repetitive following movements of the eye occur.
Children have strong imaginations and the use of fantasy brings their ideas to life, but children may not be adept enough to realize that what they are viewing is unreal.
A shorter drought in which they exhausted their stored food supplies might already have gotten them in deep trouble, because growing crops required rain rather than reservoirs.
The solution is to allow the flippers to cool down without drawing heat away from the rest of the turtle  s body.
If summer temperatures are high for too long, then all the snowfall from the previous winter will melt.
Glaciers are sometimes classified by temperature as faster-flowing temperate glaciers or as slower-flowing polar glaciers.
In the multiplicity of small-scale local egalitarian or quasi-egalitarian organizations for fellowship, worship, and production that flourished in this laissez-faire environment, individuals could interact with one another within a community of harmony and ideological equality, following their own popularly elected leaders and governing themselves by shared consensus while minimizing distinctions of wealth and power.
Certain butterflies move into spots of sunlight that have penetrated to the forest floor and display by opening and closing their beautifully patterned wings in the bright spotlights.
The sounds made as each wing is opened carry extremely well over distance and advertise his presence widely.
In the second case, pollinators (insects, birds) obtain food from the flowering plant, and the plant has its pollen distributed and seeds dispersed much more efficiently than they would be if they were carried by the wind only.
When the ants are removed, the trees usually die, probably because herbivores damage them so much that they are unable to compete with surrounding vegetation for light and growing space.
When researchers measured the heart rate, muscle tension and skin conductance of people before, during and after yawning, they did detect some changes in skin conductance following yawning, indicating a slight increase in physiological activity.
But, while accepting that not everything in life can be explained by Darwinian evolution, there are sound reasons for being skeptical of theories like this one, which avoid the issue of what yawning does for adults.
Then updraft wind currents carry the light, positively charged ice crystals up to the top of the cloud.
Sometimes, however, a stream of electrons following an established channel is met by a positive stream making a new path up from the ground.
Some of the demand for the services and goods was no doubt fulfilled by people drawn from far afield, but some local people certainly became entwined in this new economy.
Succession is influenced by many factors: the nature of the soil, exposure to sun and wind, regularity of precipitation, chance colonizations, and many other random processes.
Then, about 7000 B.C., within the space of a few generations, they switched abruptly to herding domesticated goats and sheep and to growing einkorn, pulses, and other cereal grasses.
Many complex factors led to the adoption of the new economies, not only at Abu Hureyra, but at many other locations such as 'Ain Ghazal, also in Syria, where goat toe bones showing the telltale marks of abrasion caused by foot tethering (binding) testify to early herding of domestic stock.
The temperature increased dramatically in a short period of time (years rather than centuries), allowing for a growth of the hunting-gathering population due to the abundance of resources.
It may be that the developments just described are intertwined with and influence one another.
Numerous insects occupy the marsh, feeding on living or dead cordgrass tissue, and redwing blackbirds, sparrows, rodents, rabbits, and deer feed directly on the cordgrass.
Efforts to control Spartina outside its natural environment have included burning, flooding, shading plants with black canvas or plastic, smothering the plants with dredged materials or clay, applying herbicide, and mowing repeatedly.
In winter the heat produced by a city can equal or surpass the amount of heat available from the Sun.
But an automobile produces enough heat to warm an average house in winter, and if a house were perfectly insulated, one adult could also produce more than enough heat to warm it.
But in the countryside materials have a significantly lower heat capacity because a vegetative blanket prevents heat from easily flowing into and out of the ground.
Heat islands develop best under particular conditions associated with light winds, but they can form almost any time.
For example, the wind can make a heat island stretch in the direction it blows.
When a heat island is well developed, variations can be extreme; in winter, busy streets in cities can be 1.7   warmer than the side streets.
Wind movements are also modified in cities because buildings increase the friction on air flowing around them.
This friction tends to slow the speed of winds, making them far less efficient at dispersing pollutants.
Forty-three windmills powered the drainage pumps so that they were able to lease the reclamation to farmers as early as 1612, with the investors receiving annual leasing payments at an interest rate of 17 percent.
Ever since European first explored Australia, people have been trying to understand the ancient rock drawings and cavings created by the Aborigines, the original inhabitants of the continent.
Early in the nineteenth century, encounters with Aboriginal rock art tended to be infrequent and open to speculative interpretation, but since the late nineteenth century, awareness of the extent and variety of Australian rock art has been growing.
Water enters a lake from inflowing rivers, from underwater seeps and springs, from overland flow off the surrounding land, and from rain falling directly on the lake surface.
Water leaves a lake via outflowing rivers, by soaking into the bed of the lake, and by evaporation.
Discovering the inputs and outputs of rivers is a matter of measuring the discharges of every inflowing and outflowing stream and river.
For example, a pond in hilly country that maintains a steady water level all through a dry summer in spite of having no streams flowing into it must obviously be seepage dominated.
Conversely, a pond with a stream flowing in one end and out the other, which dries up when the stream dries up, is clearly surface water dominated.
The slowing down of water renewal leads to a chain of further consequences; it causes dissolved chemicals to become increasingly concentrated, and this, in turn, has a marked effect on all living things in the lake.
Some scholars expand on this idea by emphasizing a corresponding need for arable land to feed growing numbers of people: construction of small dams, reservoirs, terraces, and field houses indicates  that  farmers  were  intensifying  their  efforts  during  the  1200s. 
Growing food at these elevations is always difficult because of the short growing season.
The Martian atmosphere is an efficient erosive agent, with Martian winds transporting dust from place to place and erasing surface features much faster than meteoritic impacts alone can obliterate them.
Until the eighteenth century, people relied on energy derived from plants as well as animal and human muscle to provide power Increased efficiency in the use of water and wind helped with such tasks as pumping, milling, or sailing.
Furthermore, the birds orient themselves carefully with regard to the Sun and gently flap their wings to increase convection cooling.
It contained a number of channels lined by a sequence of holes, about 50 centimeters deep, all showing burn marks and filled with ashes.
Moose reached Isle Royale in Lake Superior by crossing over winter ice and multiplied freely there in isolation without predators.
In the intergranular spaces of rocks, however, fluid must flow around and between grains in a tortuous path; this winding path causes a resistance to flow.The rate at which the flowing water overcomes this resistance is related to the permeability of rock.
In particularly wet years, short stretches of an otherwise dry stream-bed may have flowing water because the water table rises to intersect the land surface.
Instead of following the cattle on their annual migrations, the hunters began to prevent the herd from moving from one spot to another.
The widespread distribution of pastoral sites of this period suggests that the Saharans ranged their herds over widely separated summer and winter grazing grounds. 
So the herders shifted south, following the major river systems into savanna regions.
The high quality of Roman pottery is very easy to appreciate when handling actual pieces of tableware or indeed kitchenware and amphorae (the large jars used throughout the Mediterranean for the transport and storage of liquids, such as wine and oil).
However, it is impossible to do justice to Roman wares on the page, even when words can be backed up by photographs and drawings.
The existence of competition has been long known to naturalists; its effects were described by Darwin in considerable detail.
This was described by Darwin for indigenous New Zealand species of animals and plants, which died out when competing species from Europe were introduced.
In the following centuries, increasingly sophisticated waterpower mills were built throughout the Roman Empire and beyond its boundaries in the Middle East and northern Europe.
Raising water and grinding corn were by no means the only uses of the waterpower mill, and during the following centuries, the applications of waterpower kept pace with the developing technologies of mining, iron working, paper making, and the wool and cotton industries.
(They also proved that, in principle, the overshot wheel, a type of wheel in which an overhead stream of water powers the wheel, should win the efficiency competition.)
In any case, in animals it consists of leaping, running, climbing, throwing, wrestling, and other movements, either alone, with objects, or with other animals.
Determining the functions of play is difficult because the functions may be long-term, with beneficial effects not showing up until the animal  s adulthood.
The Benefits of play must outweigh the costs, or play would not have evolved, according to Darwin  s theory.
Darwin  s original thesis and the viewpoint supported by evolutionary gradualists, is that species change continuously but slowly and in small increments.
Many species appear to remain unchanged in the fossil record for millions of years    a situation that seems to be at odds with Darwin  s model of continuous change.
A convincing 50-million-year sequence of modern horse ancestors    each slightly larger, with more complex teeth, a longer face, and a more prominent central toe    seemed to provide strong support for Darwin  s contention that species evolve gradually.
If it seems difficult to conceive how major changes could occur rapidly, consider this: An alteration of a single gene in flies is enough to turn a normal fly with a single pair of wings into one that has two pairs of wings.
For example, in the 1800s a monstrous earthquake changed the course of the Mississippi River, a large river flowing in the central part of the United States of America.
Pioneer species--- those that occur only in the earliest stages of colonization--- tend to have high rates of invasion because they produce very large numbers of reproductive propagules (seeds, spores, and so on) and because they have an efficient means of dispersal (normally, wind).
Many plants depend on wind for dispersal and produce abundant quantities of small, relatively short-lived seeds to compensate for the fact that wind is not always a reliable means of reaching the appropriate type of habitat.
First, the opening of the kingdom to the full force of international trade by the Bowring Treaty (1855) rapidly encouraged economic specialization in the growing of rice, mainly to feed the rice-deficient portions of Asia (India and China in particular).
Within these cities, new forms of livelihood appeared to satisfy the growing need for social services and consumer goods.
But low water made steamboat travel hazardous in summer, and ice shut down traffic in winter.
Farmers responded by specializing in cash crops, borrowing to purchase more land, and investing in equipment to increase productivity.
The arts of the Islamic book, such as calligraphy and decorative drawing, developed during A.D. 900 to 1500, and luxury books are some of the most characteristic examples of Islamic art produced in this period.
The increased availability of paper, particularly after 1250, encouraged people to develop systems of representation, such as architectural plans and drawings.
The effects of wind and water then break down the masses of uplifted rock, producing sediment that is transported by water downward to ultimately form layers in lakes, seashores, or even oceans.
It had been recognized by the German philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724-1804) that chemical reactions could not supply the tremendous amount of energy flowing from the Sun for more than about a millennium.
The impulse to produce more food to feed a growing population was satisfied in some areas by the development of more-complex subsistence strategies involving intensive labor and requiring more cooperation and greater coordination among the increasing numbers of people.
A growing body of evidence now suggests that all of the factors considered here are operating simultaneously to produce species succession.
The types of organisms growing or living in the soil greatly influence the soil  s physical and chemical characteristics.
For this reason, a soil scientist can tell a great deal about the attributes of the soil in any given area simply form knowing what kind of flora the soil supports.
Finally, trees perform the vital function of slowing water runoff and holding the soil in place with their root systems, thus combating erosion.
Anaximander is credited with drawing up the first world map of the Greeks and also with recognizing that Earth  s surface was curved.
All we can say for certain about Anaximenes, who was probably born around 560 BCE, is that following in the tradition of Anaximander, he also disagreed with his mentor.
Reviewing translocation of amphibians and reptiles, researchers C.Kenneth Dodd and Richard A. Siegel concluded that most projects have not demonstrated success as conservation techniques and should not be advocated as though they were acceptable management and mitigation practices.
After ten or twelve stories, masonry construction reaches a maximum possible height, since it runs into difficulties of compression and of inadequate lateral strength to combat wind shear.
From the year 1665, when English microscopist Robert Hooke discovered cells, until the middle of the twentieth century, biologists had only light microscopes for viewing cells.
The electromagnets bend the electron beam to magnify and focus an image onto a viewing screen or photographic film.
Following a decline to a relatively low population level in the 1930s,  raccoons began to prosper following their 1943 breeding season.
Furthermore, the application of pesticides (the alternative to growing Bt plants) has been demonstrated to cause widespread harm to nontarget insects.
This scenario is not likely to occur in many instances because there are no weedy relatives growing near the crop plant.
However, transgenic Bt plants express the toxin in all tissues throughout growing season.
A more sustainable approach would be to plant nontransgenic corn, monitor the fields throughout the growing season, and then apply a pesticide only if and when needed.
More esoteric texts attempt to explain old Babylonian customs, such as the procedure for curing someone who is ill, which included rubbing tar and gypsum on the sick person  s door and drawing a design at the foot of the person  s bed.
Now extinct, moa were gigantic wingless birds that stood as much as 10 feet (3 meters) tall and weighed as much as 550 pounds (250 kilograms).
That happy situation began to change in the 1980s, due to the increasing frequency of large forest fires that were essentially impossible to extinguish unless rain and low winds combined to help.
The first steps toward change were taken by Solon in 594 B.C., when he broke the aristocracy  s stranglehold on elected offices by establishing wear rather than birth as the basis of office holding, abolishing the economic obligations of ordinary Athenians to the aristocracy, and allowing the assembly (of which all citizens were equal members) to overrule the decisions of local courts in certain cases.
Species whose habitat in the temperate latitudes are confronted by lethal low temperatures in winter, while species dwelling in arid and semi-arid regions are exposed to long dry, hot periods in summer.
North of the Pyrenees Mountains, the natterjack toad offers a good example of hibernation, passing the winter dug deep into sandy ground.
Conversely, natteijacks in southern Spain remain active during the mild winters common to the region and are instead forced into inactivity during the dry, hot summer season Summer estivation also occurs by burrowing into the ground or hiding in cool, deep rock crevasses to avoid desiccation and lethal ambient temperatures.
The change from redistribution to formal trade-often based on regulated commerce that perhaps involved fixed prices and even currency  was closely tied to growing political and social complexity and hence to the development of the state in the ancient world.
The passage of wind-blown tree pollen is also not hindered by such barriers, and the seeds of many plants may be carried back and forth on animals.
Each island was bom from underwater volcanoes and was gradually covered by organisms derived from strays that rode the ocean currents and winds from other islands and continents.
In fact, several scientists have suggested that the duckbill dinosaurs and horned dinosaurs, with their complex battery of grinding teeth, evolved to exploit this new resource of rapidly growing flowering plants.
This material, along with the smoke from the fires, shrouded Earth, creating a form of nuclear winter.
Only a little heating will soften the ice and get the process started, allowing the rock and metal to sink to the center and the slushy ice to float to the surface.
Knowing how much oil has been found in an intensively drilled area, such as eastern Texas, experts make estimates of probable volumes in other regions where rock types and structures are similar to those in eastern Texas.
When the current approaches the equator, the westward-flowing trade winds cause nutrient-rich cold water along the coast to rise from deeper depths to more shallow ones.
This east-to-west pressure gradient enhances the trade winds over the equatorial waters.
However, in other years the Southern Oscillation, for unknown reasons, swings in the opposite direction, dramatically changing the usual conditions described above, with pressure increasing in the western.
This change in the pressure gradient causes the trade winds to weaken or, in some cases, to reverse.
If there were periods of drought, any adaptations allowing the fish to survive the dry conditions would have been advantageous.
Later, portable camera obscuras were developed, with interior mirrors and drawing tables on which the artist could trace the image.
The room shown in it closely resembles the room in other Vermeer paintings, with lighting coming from a window on the left, the same roof beams, and similar floor tiles, suggesting that the room was fitted with a camera obscura on the side in the foreground.
Hockney argues that the camera obscura does not replace artistic skill in drawing and painting.
In experimenting with it, he found that it is actually quite difficult to use for drawing, and he speculates that the artists probably combined their observations from life with tracing of shapes.
The slowing of wave action and currents means that seagrass beds tend to accumulate sediment.
For example, in areas of the cold North Atlantic, ice may form in winter.
Researchers Robertson and Mann note that when the ice begins to break up, the wind and tides may move the ice around, scouring the bottom and uprooting the eelgrass.
These included a common mammalian fauna of large mammals, a common flora composed of broad grasslands as well as wind-swept dunes and tundra, and a common climate with cold, dry winters and somewhat wanner summers.
Broad, windswept valleys; glaciated mountains; sparse vegetation; and less moisture created a rather forbidding land mass.
Guthrie has also demonstrated that the landscape must have been subject to intense and continuous winds, especially in winter.
They need landscapes with strong winds that remove the winter snows, exposing the dry grasses beneath.
Pollen, a powdery substance, which is produced by flowering plants and contains male reproductive cells, is usually carried from plant to plant by insects or birds, but some plants rely on the wind to carry their pollen.
The drawback is that wind is obviously unspecific as to where it takes the pollen.
It is like trying to get a letter to a friend at the other end of the village by climbing onto the roof and throwing an armful of letters into the air and hoping that one will end up in the friend's garden.
If a number of people in the village were throwing letters off roofs, your friend would be bound to get one.
By contrast, in the tropics, where each tree species has few, widely scattered individuals, the chance of wind blowing pollen to another individual is sufficiently slim that animals are a safer bet as transporters of pollen.
Even tall trees in the tropics are usually not wind pollinated despite being in windy conditions.
Since wind-pollinated flowers have no need to attract insects or other animals, they have dispensed with bright petals, nectar, and scent.
Most deciduous wind-pollinated trees (which shed their leaves every fall) produce their pollen in the spring while the branches are bare of leaves to reduce the surrounding surfaces that   compete" with the stigmas (the part of the flower that receives the pollen) for pollen.
Evergreen conifers, which do not shed their leaves, have less to gain from spring flowering, and, indeed, some flower in the autumn or winter.
Pollen produced higher in the top branches is likely to go farther: it is windier (and gustier) and the pollen can be blown farther before hitting the ground.
Moreover, dangling catkins like hazel hold the pollen in until the wind is strong enough to bend them, ensuring that pollen is only shed into the air when the wind is blowing hard.
Since all this pollen is floating around in the air, it is no wonder that wind-pollinated trees are a major source of allergies.
Once the pollen has been snatched by the wind, the fate of the pollen is obviously up to the vagaries of the wind, but not everything is left to chance.
Very large or long teeth provide almost no room for cutting the prey into a convenient size for swallowing, the fish must gulp the prey down whole.
Across regular, well- defined trade routes along the Baltic and North seas, the ships of league cities carried furs, wax, copper, fish, grain, timber, and wine.
At cities such as Bruges and London, Hanseatic merchants secured special trading concessions, exempting them from all tolls and allowing them to trade at local fairs.
When it is cold in winter, subterranean termites move to burrows below the frost line. 
Renowned Swiss entomologist Martin Luscher described the mounds of this fungus-growing species as being as much as 16 feet tall, 16 feet in diameter at their base, and with a cement-like wall of soil mixed with termite saliva that is from 16 to 23 inches thick.
It supplies the nest  s inhabitants with fresh oxygen as it rises through the fungus-growing area back up to the attic.
Coral reefs have fascinated scientists for almost 200 years, and some of the most pertinent observations of them were made in the 1830s by Charles Darwin on the voyage of the Beagle.
Darwin s theory was that the succession from one coral reef type to another could be achieved by the upward growth of coral from a sinking platform, and that there would be a progression from a fringing reef, through the barrier reef stage until, with the disappearance through subsidence (sinking) of the central island, only a reef-enclosed lagoon or atoll would survive.
A long time after Darwin put forward this theory, some deep boreholes were drilled in the Pacific atolls in the 1950s.
The drill holes passed through more than a thousand meters of coral before reaching the rock substratum of the ocean floor, and indicated that the coral had been growing upward for tens of millions of years as Earth's crust subsided at a rate of between 15 and 51 meters per million years.
Darwin s theory was therefore proved basically correct.
The sweet potato, growing in sandy soil and providing more food energy per unit of land than other crops, became the main food of the poor in much of the South China rice area.
The jaw joint of carnivores such as dogs and cats has the mechanical advantage of being at the same level as the tooth row, allowing the jaws to close with tremendous speed and forcing the upper teeth to occlude against the lower teeth with great precision.
The jaw joints of many advanced herbivores, such as cows, lie at a different level than the tooth row, allowing transverse tearing, shredding, and compression of plant material.
Depending on the location, time of year, and time of day, any or all of the following differences between cities and their surroundings can be important: albedo (reflectivity of the surface), surface roughness, emissions of heat, emissions of moisture, and emissions of particles that affect net radiation and the growth of cloud droplets.
Overall, the heat island is strongest (1) at night when compensating sunlight is absent; (2) during the winter, when nights are longer and there is more heat generated in the city; and (3) when the region is dominated by a high-pressure area with light winds, clear skies, and less humid air.
Pollutants from urban areas may even affect the weather downwind from them.
One of the most important phenomena of the later Middle Ages was the growing availability of cheap paper.
As Gutenberg, apart from getting the key idea, had to solve a lot of practical problems, including imposing paper and ink into the process and the actual printing itself, for which he adapted the screw press used by winemakers, it is amazing that his first product does not look at all rudimentary.
Imports included a variety of new beverages, spices, and ship  s goods around the world and brought money flowing back.
