It is held there by the force of surface tension without which water would drain instantly from any wet surface, leaving it totally dry.
Aeroponics, a technique in which plants are suspended and the roots misted with a nutrient solution, is another method for growing plants without soil.
The new age of machinery, in short, could not have been born without a new source of both movable and constant power.
Even without the problem of regional differences, rocks present a difficulty as unique time markers.
One question was related to evidence that the invertebrate fauna (animals without spines) of the Mediterranean had changed abruptly about 6 million years ago.
Most of Africa presents a curious case in which societies moved directly from a technology of stone to iron without passing through the intermediate stage of copper or bronze metallurgy, although some early copper-working sites have been found in West Africa.
We know that over the past millennia the climate has undergone major changes without any significant human intervention.
At mid-century, an Antwerp financier only slightly exaggerated when he claimed,   0ne can no more trade without bills of exchange than sail without water."
When such statues are viewed in isolation, out of their original context and without knowledge of their function, it is easy to criticize them for their rigid attitudes that remained unchanged for three thousand years.
More often, we simply cooperate with others to reach some end without endowing the relationship with any larger significance.
The continuation of biological rhythms in an organism without external cues attests to its having an internal clock.
Typically, the animal's daily internally generated cycle of activity continues without change.
In low-elevation north coastal areas without sinkholes, the Maya would have been able to get down to the water table by digging wells up to 75 feet (22 meters) deep.
But the inhabitants of Tikal and other cities dependent on reservoirs for drinking water would still have been in deep trouble if 18 months passed without rain in a prolonged drought.
There is not much that the turtle can do about this without compromising the aerodynamic shape of the flipper.
The solution is to allow the flippers to cool down without drawing heat away from the rest of the turtle  s body.
That is why a gull can stand on an ice floe without freezing.
In contrast to parasitism, in commensalism, one partner benefits without significantly affecting the other.
They were reasonably well governed, without notable corruption or grandiose state projects, although in all of them the government gave some aid to railways, and in Sweden the state built the main lines.
Each soldier received his pay, but in regions without a developed economy there was initially little on which it could be spent.
Indeed, there are vast areas of spruce forest without moose.
Nevertheless, one still speaks of the ecosystem when referring to a local association of animals and plants, usually without paying much attention to the energy aspects.
The continued proliferation of banks made it easier for those without cash to negotiate loans in paper money.
Both of these conditions are often found on the ocean floors, where shelled invertebrates (organisms without spines) flourish and are covered by the continuous rain of sedimentary particles.
The surface of the ground can sink if hot groundwater is withdrawn without being replaced.
Therefore, even without any industrial production of heat, an urban area tends to be warmer than the countryside that surrounds it.
Moose reached Isle Royale in Lake Superior by crossing over winter ice and multiplied freely there in isolation without predators.
Play is not without considerable costs to the individual animal.
In 1972 paleontologists Stephen Jay Gould and Niles Eldredge challenged conventional wisdom with an opposing viewpoint, the punctuated equilibrium hypothesis, which posits that species give rise to new species in relatively sudden bursts, without a lengthy transition period.
Its public display and private possession laid the basis for temporal autonomy: people could now coordinate comings and goings without dictation from above.
Consequently, children of a particular age cannot be expected to master educational material without taking into account their current level of cognitive development.
An additional benefit was that the sediment carried by the river waters deposited nutrients in the soil, thus enabling the farmer to cultivate a single plot of ground for many years without moving to a new location.
In 1837, however, John Deere patented a sharp-cutting steel plow that sliced through the sod without soil sticking to the blade.
Similarly, steel beams could be used to construct balconies that projected out from the building without any support beneath them.
Steel construction, on the other hand, can support a building of 50 or 100 stories without difficulty.
Light microscopes can magnify objects up to 1,000 times without causing blurriness. 
They have also expanded into many areas lacking any agriculture other than grazing and into places without forests or permanent streams.
This pesticide has been applied to plants for decades without the development of insect-resistant populations.
When the Maori arrived in New Zealand, they encountered birds that had been evolving for 80 million years without the presence of mammalian predators.
The actions of these potential nest predators could have reduced moa populations without leaving much direct evidence.
The effect of Cleisthenes, reforms was to establish the superiority of the Athenian community as a whole over local institutions without destroying them.
When one of Vermeer  s paintings was X-rayed, it did not have any preliminary sketches on the canvas beneath the paint, but rather the complete image drawn in black and white without any trial sketches.
The high rate of metabolism (the processing of energy for survival) of the microorganisms in the sediments causes sediments to be anaerobic (without oxygen) below the first few millimeters.
It had three merits: it could be used repeatedly until worn out; it was cast in metal from a mold and so could be renewed without difficulty; and it made lettering uniform.
