Steam power did not merely spin cotton and roll iron; early in the new century, it also multiplied ten times over the amount of paper that a single worker could produce in a day.
People on the job often develop close relationships with coworkers as they come to share gripes, jokes, gossip, and satisfactions.
The worker was bound to the master by a mutual contract that either one could repudiate, and the relationship was conceptualized as one of partnership.
Older workers had been allowed to stop work a half hour before the regular time, and in 1601 younger works left with them.
Field experiments carried out by Charles Krebs and coworkers in 1992 provide an answer.
They generally nest in trees and live in colonies made up of hundreds to thousands of workers.
The pheromone secreted by these stingless bees attracts and aggregates members of their colony to the prospective nest site; however, it also attracts workers from other nests.
If workers from two different colonies arrive at the prospective nest at the same time, they may fight for possession.
Each dawn, fifteen to thirty workers from two competing colonies arrived at the contested nest site.
The workers from the two colonies faced off in two swarms and displayed and fought with each other.
Watt was employed at the time by the University of Glasgow as a skilled crafts worker making scientific instruments.
Since the highly active worker ants require a great deal of energy, plants exploit this need by providing extrafloral nectar that supplies ants with abundant energy.
The commercial revolution also provided the opportunity for thousands of agricultural workers to improve their social position.
Cultural influences were of three types: the bringing of objects, the transfer of craft workers, and the introduction of massive civil architecture.
One result was an influx of craft worker, particularly those skilled in artistic media like stone-carving which had not existed before the conquest.
Civilian workers came mostly from Gaul and Germany.
As many of the officials in Britain had strong links with Gaul, it is not surprising that early Roman Britain owes much to craft workers from that area.
The worker and soldier castes of social ants, bees, and wasps consist of only females, all daughters of a single queen that mated soon after she matured and thereafter never mated again.
The worker and soldier castes of termites consist of both males and females, and the queen lives permanently with a male consort. 
As well as cottage workers, who had the potential of being more mobile than peasants of some other countries.
Nonlandholding peasants and cottage workers, who worked for wages and grazed cows or pigs on the village common, were also hurt when the common was no longer available.
