To be architecture, a building must achieve a working harmony with a variety of elements.
It is the work of architects to create buildings that are not simply constructions but also offer inspiration and delight.
It works in compression to divert the weight above it out to the sides, where the weight is borne by the vertical elements on either side of the arch.
In addition to other artworks, figurines representing the human female in exaggerated form have also been found at Upper Paleolithic sites.
Until the reign of George   (1760-1820), available sources of power for work and travel had not increased since the Middle Ages.
Steam power did not merely spin cotton and roll iron; early in the new century, it also multiplied ten times over the amount of paper that a single worker could produce in a day.
He then proceeded to teach himself geology, and when he was twenty-four, he went to work for the company that was excavating the Somerset Coal Canal in the south of England.
He later worked on similar jobs across the length and breadth of England, all the while studying the newly revealed strata and collecting all the fossils he could find.
The physical bonds included the network of military garrisons, which were stationed in every province, and the network of stone-built roads that linked the provinces with Rome.
Had the Greeks held novelty in such disdain as we,   asked Horace in his epistle,   what work of ancient date would now exist?  
Most of Africa presents a curious case in which societies moved directly from a technology of stone to iron without passing through the intermediate stage of copper or bronze metallurgy, although some early copper-working sites have been found in West Africa.
It had over 2,000 apartment complexes, a great market, a large number of industrial workshops, an administrative center, a number of massive religious edifices, and a regular grid pattern of streets and buildings.
The picture of Teotihuac  n that emerges is a classic picture of positive feedback among obsidian mining and working, trade, population growth, irrigation, and religious tourism.
More irrigation works would have to be built to feed the growing population, and this resulted in more power and wealth for the elite.
They appear only in equatorial regions and generally do not form extensive interconnected networks.
A 2003 Mars Global Surveyor image shows what mission specialists think may be a delta  a fan-shaped network of channels and sediments where a river once flowed into a larger body of water, in this case a lake filling a crater in the southern highlands.
This was justified by the view that reflective practice could help teachers to feel more intellectually involved in their role and work in teaching and enable them to cope with the paucity of scientific fact and the uncertainty of knowledge in the discipline of teaching. 
They designed an experimental strategy for a group of teachers in Virginia and worked with 40 practicing teachers over several years.
They describe the initial understanding in the teachers with whom they were working as being   utilitarian    and not rich or detailed enough to drive systematic reflection.
The work of Wildman and Niles suggests the importance of recognizing some of the difficulties of instituting reflective practice.
Becoming a reflective practitioner requires extra work (Jaworski, 1993) and has only vaguely defined goals with, perhaps, little initially perceivable reward and the threat of vulnerability.
Apparently, the most obvious reason for teachers to work toward reflective practice is that teacher educators think it is a good thing.
A few of these spores found a toehold on the dark, forbidding rocks and grew and began to work their transformation upon the land.
In the seventeenth century, the trading activities of the Dutch East India Company resulted in vast quantities of decorated Chinese porcelain being brought to Europe, which stimulated and influenced the work of a wide variety of wares, notably Delft.
Just as painted designs on Greek pots may seem today to be purely decorative, whereas in fact they were carefully and precisely worked out so that at the time, their meaning was clear, so it is with Chinese pots.
The imperial court commissioned work and in the Yuan dynasty (A.D. 1279-1368) an imperial ceramic factory was established at Jingdezhen.
More extended trading networks also helped develop Europe's economy in this period.
Other statues were designed to be placed within an architectural setting, for instance, in front of the monumental entrance gateways to temples known as pylons, or in pillared courts, where they would be placed against or between pillars: their frontality worked perfectly within the architectural context.
Stone statues were worked from single rectangular blocks of material and retained the compactness of the original shape.
By contrast, wooden statues were carved from several pieces of wood that were pegged together to form the finished work, and metal statues were either made by wrapping sheet metal around a wooden core or cast by the lost wax process.
Most engravings, for example, are best lit from the left, as befits the work of right-handed artists, who generally prefer to have the light source on the left so that the shadow of their hand does not fall on the tip of the engraving tool or brush.
In Berlin, for the premiere performance outside the Soviet Union of The Battleship Potemkin, film director Sergei Eisenstein worked with Austrian composer Edmund Meisel (1874-1930) on a musical score matching sound to image; the Berlin screenings with live music helped to bring the film its wide international fame.
Occasionally, this may mean working with instead of against competitors.
This happens in many work settings.
People on the job often develop close relationships with coworkers as they come to share gripes, jokes, gossip, and satisfactions.
The relations between animal activity and these periods, particularly for the daily rhythms, have been of such interest and importance that a huge amount of work has been done on them and the special research field of chronobiology has emerged.
It works for elephants, for whales, and, perhaps, it worked for many of the larger dinosaurs.
It apparently works, in a smaller way, for some other sea turtles.
Production was generally in the hands of skilled individual artisans doing piecework under the tutelage of a master who was also the shop owner.
The worker was bound to the master by a mutual contract that either one could repudiate, and the relationship was conceptualized as one of partnership.
The growth of independent guilds was furthered by the fact that surplus was not a result of domestic craft production but resulted primarily from international trading; the government left working people to govern themselves, much as shepherds of tribal confederacies were left alone by their leaders.
As among tribespeople, personal relationships and a careful weighing of character have always been crucial in a mercantile economy with little regulation, where one's word is one's bond and where informal ties of trust cement together an international trade network.
Nor have merchants and artisans ever had much tolerance for aristocratic professions of moral superiority, favoring instead an egalitarian ethic of the open market, where steady hard work, the loyalty of one's fellows, and entrepreneurial skill make all the difference.
In fact, subsequent work has shown that in a periodic table, elements should not be ordered strictly by atomic mass.
Hence a writing tablet dated 25 April tells of 343 men at one fort engaged on tasks like shoemaking, building a bathhouse, operating kilns, digging clay, and working lead.
An ant colony may be legitimately called a superorganism because its communication system is so highly organized that the colony always works as a whole and appropriately according to the circumstances.
But there is no evidence for such an interacting communicative network in a climax plant formation.
The West had plenty of attractions: the alluvial river bottoms, the fecund soils of the rolling forest lands, the black loams of the prairies were tempting to New England farmers working their rocky, sterile land and to southeastern farmers plagued with soil depletion and erosion.
When parents talk with children about "what we did today" or "last week" or "last year," they guide the children's formation of a framework for talking about the past.
Apart from this, being able to give up labor-intensive grain production freed both the land and the workforce for more productive agricultural divisions.
As the demand for agricultural produce from both consumers and industry increased, agricultural land became more valuable and people tried to work the available land more intensively and to reclaim more land from wetlands and lakes.
Older workers had been allowed to stop work a half hour before the regular time, and in 1601 younger works left with them.
When the work was completed, many moved to other construction jobs or to factory work in cities and towns, where they became part of an expanding working class.
Another way of countering drought is to have a limited amount of mass above ground and to have extensive root networks below ground.
Texts dealing with economic matters predominated, as they always had done; but at this point works of theology, literature, history, and law also appeared.
Also, a specialized metal-producing workshop may have been excavated in a small area at Uruk.
This has been interpreted as the remains of a workshop where molten metal was scooped up from the channel and poured into molds in the holes.
Objects themselves suggest that they were the work of skilled professionals.
From the first appearance of cylinder seals, the carved scenes could be highly elaborate and refined, indicating the work of specialist stone-cutters.
However, because the ocean basins really are short-lived features on geologic times scales, reconstructing the world  s geography by backtracking along the hot-spot trail works only for the last 5 percent or so of geologic time.
Field experiments carried out by Charles Krebs and coworkers in 1992 provide an answer.
It is generally made with carefully selected and purified clay, worked to thin-walled and standardized shapes on a fast wheel and fired in a kiln (pottery oven) capable of ensuring a consistent finish.
However, no one who has ever worked in the field would question the abundance of Roman pottery, particularly in the Mediterranean region.
This abundance is notable in Roman settlements (especially urban sites) where the labor that archaeologists have to put into the washing and sorting of potsherds (fragments of pottery) constitutes a high proportion of the total work during the initial phases of excavation.
Moving water was one of the earliest energy sources to be harnessed to reduce the workload of people and animals.
Raising water and grinding corn were by no means the only uses of the waterpower mill, and during the following centuries, the applications of waterpower kept pace with the developing technologies of mining, iron working, paper making, and the wool and cotton industries.
Water was the main source of mechanical power, and by the end of the seventeenth century, England alone is thought to have had some 20,000 working mills.
Most researchers expect to find that both modes of transition from one species to another are at work in evolution.
Sun clocks worked, of course, only on clear days; water clocks misbehaved when the temperature fell toward freezing, to say nothing of long-run drift as the result of sedimentation and clogging.
Both these devices worked well in sunny climates; but in Northern Europe the sun may be hidden by clouds for weeks at a time, while temperatures vary not only seasonally but from day to night.
They set a time to go to work, to open the market, to close the market, to leave work, and finally a time to put out fires and got to sleep.
The clock provided the punctuation marks for group activity, while enabling individuals to order their own work (and that of others) so as to enhance productivity.
Indeed, the very notion of productivity is a byproduct of the clock: once one can relate performance to uniform time units, work is never the same.
One moves from the task-oriented time consciousness of the peasant (working one job after another, as time and light permit) and the time-filling busyness of the domestic servant (who always hand something to do) to an effort to maximize product per unit of time. 
Local rulers could no longer protect their relatives and attendants in legal cases, and with the ending in 1905 of the practice of forcing peasant farmers to work part-time for local ruling families, then, were severed from their traditional social context. 
Under these conditions, it made good sense to thousands of peasant families to in effect work full-time at what they had been able to do only part-time previously because of the requirement to work for the government: grow rice for the marketplace. 
They generally nest in trees and live in colonies made up of hundreds to thousands of workers.
The pheromone secreted by these stingless bees attracts and aggregates members of their colony to the prospective nest site; however, it also attracts workers from other nests.
If workers from two different colonies arrive at the prospective nest at the same time, they may fight for possession.
Each dawn, fifteen to thirty workers from two competing colonies arrived at the contested nest site.
The workers from the two colonies faced off in two swarms and displayed and fought with each other.
The new railroad networks shifted the direction of western trade.
Books became major vehicles for artistic expression, and the artists who produced them, notably calligraphers and painters, enjoyed high status, and their workshops were often sponsored by princes and their courts.
These continued to include, of course, manuscripts of the Koran, which every Muslim wanted to read, but scientific works, histories, romances, and epic and lyric poetry were also copied in fine handwriting and decorated with beautiful illustrations.
These large sheets meant that calligraphers and artists had more space on which to work.
Watt was employed at the time by the University of Glasgow as a skilled crafts worker making scientific instruments.
Since the highly active worker ants require a great deal of energy, plants exploit this need by providing extrafloral nectar that supplies ants with abundant energy.
Nicolaus Steno (1638-1686) was the first to work out principles of the progressive depositing of sediment in Tuscany.
From the initial work came a suite of discoveries leading to radio isotopic dating, which quickly led to the realization that Earth must be billions of years old, and to the discovery of nuclear fusion as an energy source capable of sustaining the Sun's luminosity for that amount of time.
These animals primarily work the soil mechanically.
While many other observers and thinkers had laid the groundwork for science, Thales ( circa 624 B.C.E-ca 547 B.C.E.
Unfortunately, too, most of the written work fo Anaximenes, who may have been Anaximander  s pupil, has also been lost.
Is translocation successful if the individuals survive the first week or a year, or do they need to reproduce for one or several generations  Whatever the answer, it is clear that a general framework is required to ensure that any translocation is justified, has a realistic chance of success, and will be properly monitored and evaluated for the benefit of future efforts. 
The first microscopes were light microscopes, which work by passing visible light through a specimen.
Each symbol or glyph--the flowering reed (pronounced like   i  ), the owl (  m  ), the quail chick (  w  ), etcetera--was a tiny work of art.
Different factors could have worked in concert to account for their abrupt disappearance.
Because major habitat destruction seems to have occurred after moa populations already were depleted, and because some habitat that could have sheltered moa populations remained, it would seem that other factors were also at work in the extinction of these birds.
Within this traditional framework the Athenians, between 600 B.C.
As relative newcomers to the Southwest, a place where their climate, neighbors, and rulers could be equally inhospitable, the Navajo created these art forms to affect the world around them, not just through the recounting of the actions symbolized, but through the beauty and harmony of the artworks themselves.
All these could be obtained from the nearby highlands, from the Valley of Mexico, and from other regions, if the necessary trading networks came into being.
Thus, argued Rathje, long-distance trade networks were organized through local ceremonial centers and their leaders.
There were also the logistics of transportation, the extent of the trading network, and the social and political environment.
Intricate market networks channeled supplies along well-defined routes.
Some explanations (such as the one stating that dinosaurs all died of diseases) fail because there is no way to scientifically test them, and they cannot move beyond the realm of speculation and guesswork.
In 1558 Giovanni Battista Della Porta wrote in his twenty-volume work Magia naturalis (meaning "natural magic") instructions for adding a convex lens to improve the quality of the image thrown against a canvas or panel in the darkened area where its outlines could be traced.
The commercial revolution also provided the opportunity for thousands of agricultural workers to improve their social position.
Cultural influences were of three types: the bringing of objects, the transfer of craft workers, and the introduction of massive civil architecture.
One result was an influx of craft worker, particularly those skilled in artistic media like stone-carving which had not existed before the conquest.
Civilian workers came mostly from Gaul and Germany.
As many of the officials in Britain had strong links with Gaul, it is not surprising that early Roman Britain owes much to craft workers from that area.
Local workshops did develop and stylistically similar groups of sculpture show how skills in this new medium became widerspread.
Likewise skills in the use of mosaic, wall painting, ceramic decoration, and metal-working developed throughout the province with the eventual emergence of characteristically Romano-British styles.
The worker and soldier castes of social ants, bees, and wasps consist of only females, all daughters of a single queen that mated soon after she matured and thereafter never mated again.
The worker and soldier castes of termites consist of both males and females, and the queen lives permanently with a male consort. 
Because the flat teeth of herbivores work like grindstones, however, the jaws mush move both side to side and front to back.
In 1450, Gutenberg began work on his Bible, the first printed book, known as the Gutenberg.
Europe in the fifteenth century was a place where intermediate technology-that is, workshops with skilled craftspeople-was well established and spreading fast, especially in Germany and Italy.
Such workshops were able to take on printing easily, and it thus became Europe's first true industry.
The old monastic scriptoria-monastery workshops where monks copied texts by hand-worked closely alongside the new presses, continuing to produce the luxury goods that movable-type printing could not yet supply.
German printers had the disadvantage of working with the complex typeface that the Italians sneeringly referred to as "Gothic" and that later became known as black letter.
As well as cottage workers, who had the potential of being more mobile than peasants of some other countries.
Nonlandholding peasants and cottage workers, who worked for wages and grazed cows or pigs on the village common, were also hurt when the common was no longer available.
It was such people who began to flock to the cities seeking employment and who found work in the factories that would transform the nation and, the worl
