The theater, then, is one tool whereby people define and understand their world or escape from unpleasant realities.
The highest plants in the world occur at around 6,100 meters on Makalu in the Himalayas.
The world  s architectural structures have also been devised in relation to the objective limitations of materials.
Much of the world  s great architecture has been constructed of stone because of its beauty, permanence, and availability.
Some of the world  s finest stone architecture can be seen in the ruins of the ancient Inca city of Machu Picchu high in the eastern Andes Mountains of Peru.
Ecologists are especially interested to know what factors contribute to the resilience of communities because climax communities all over the world are being severely damaged or destroyed by human activities.
More than one-quarter of the world  s oil and almost one-fifth of the world  s natural gas come from offshore, even though offshore drilling is six to seven times more expensive than drilling on land.
Hyperaccumulators run the entire range of the plant world.
Many are found in tropical and subtropical areas of the world, where accumulation of high concentrations of metals may afford some protection against plant-eating insects and microbial pathogens.
But as more and more accumulations of strata were cataloged in more and more places, it became clear that the sequences of rocks sometimes differed from region to region and that no rock type was ever going to become a reliable time marker throughout the world.
A second explanation involves the influence of the social world on children  s language use.
The world looks very different to a person whose head is only two or three feet above the ground than to one whose head is five or six feet above it.
There is a quality of cohesiveness about the Roman world that applied neither to Greece nor perhaps to any other civilization, ancient or modern.
While the Greek world had expanded along the Mediterranean seas lanes, the Roman world was assembled by territorial conquest.
The key to the Greek world lay in its high-powered ships; the key to Roman power lay in its marching legions.
It may have developed independently, but many scholars believe that the spread of agriculture and iron throughout Africa linked it to the major centers of the Near East and Mediterranean world.
Over a period of about 100,000 years, while the seas pulled back, climates around the world became dramatically more extreme: warmer days, cooler nights; hotter summers, colder winters.
China has one of the world's oldest continuous civilizations  despite invasions and occasional foreign rule.
Chinese porcelain wares imported into the Arab world.
In order to understand ancient Egyptian art, it is vital to know as much as possible of the elite Egyptians' view of the world and the functions and contexts of the art produced for them.
In Europe it took a little longer, mainly because there were more small producers for whom the costs of sound were prohibitive, and in other parts of the world problems with rights or access to equipment delayed the shift to sound production for a few more years (though cinemas in major cities may have been wired in order to play foreign sound films).
Arid lands, surprisingly, contain some of the world  s largest river systems, such as the Murray-Darling in Australia, the Rio Grande in North America, the Indus in Asia, and the Nile in Africa.
They are vital for sustaining life in some of the driest parts of the world.
In particular, pastoralism favors a mobile lifestyle, and this mobility helps to explain the impact of pastoralist societies on this part of the world.
Two percent may be a deceiving figure, however, since over 80 percent of the world  s freshwater is locked up as ice in glaciers, with the majority of it in Antarctica.
The total amount of ice is even more awesome if we estimate the water released upon the hypothetical melting of the world  s glaciers.
In both 1850 and 1914, the Scandinavian countries had the highest literacy rates in Europe, or in the world, and the Netherlands was well above the European average.
The world's largest supply of natural steam occurs at The Geysers, 120 kilometers north of San Francisco, California.
The contribution of geothermal energy to the world's energy future is difficult to estimate.
Geothermal energy probably will not make large-scale contributions to the world energy budget until well into the twenty-first century, if ever.
How did it come about that farming developed independently in a number of world centers (the Southeast Asian mainland, Southwest Asia, Central America, lowland and highland South America, and equatorial Africa) at more or less the same time?
It was argued that once hunter-gatherers had occupied the whole world, the population started to grow everywhere and food became scarce; agriculture would have been a solution to this problem.
The idea of a world population crisis is therefore unlikely, although population pressure might have arisen in some areas.
Perceptions of the visible world were greatly altered by the invention of photography in the middle of the nineteenth century.
Artists were fascinated by photography because it offered a way of examining the world in much greater detail.
This in itself is an almost incomprehensible span of generations, and one that makes Australia  s rock art the oldest continuous art tradition in the world.
As on our Moon, the smaller craters are often filled with surface matter-mostly dust-confirming that Mars is a dry desert world.
The terrestrial world is green now, but it did not start out that way.
The resulting boom in the iron industry expanded the annual iron output by more than 170 times between 1740 and 1840, and by the 1850s Great Britain was producing more tons of iron than the rest of the world combined.
Other islands, including Tahiti and Easter Islands in the Pacific, Reunion and Mauritius in the Indian Ocean, an indeed most of the large islands in the world  s oceans, owe their existence to mantle plumes.
However, because the ocean basins really are short-lived features on geologic times scales, reconstructing the world  s geography by backtracking along the hot-spot trail works only for the last 5 percent or so of geologic time.
Most of the world's potable water  freshwater suitable for drinking  is accounted for by groundwater, which is stored in the pores and fractures in rocks.
A century later the picture was completely different: by then, the world had an electric industry, and a quarter of its generating capacity was water powered.
In 1881 the Godalming power station in Surrey, England, on the banks of the Wey River, created the world's first public electricity supply.
Many prehistorians believe that farming may have emerged in dependently in several different areas of the world when small communities, driven by increasing population and a decline in available food resources, began to plant seeds in the ground in an effort to guarantee their survival.
How the first governments took shape in these areas is not certain, but anthropologists studying the evolution of human communities in various parts of the world have discovered that one common stage in the process is the emergence of what are called   big men   within a single village or a collection of villages.
By 1850 the United States possessed roughly 9,000 miles of railroad track; then years later it had over 30,000 miles, more than the rest of the world combined.
Vast forests enabled Russia to become the world  s leading producer of iron, much of which was exported to Britain.
In fact, for mature soils in many parts of the world, the predominant type of natural vegetation is considered the most important direct influence on soil characteristics.
In the first decade of the nineteenth century, a French naturalist named Francois Peron had sailed around the world measuring the temperature of the ocean.
), the best known of the earliest Greek philosophers, made the first steps toward a new, more objective approach to finding out about the world.
He posed a very basic question:   What is the world made of ?
He proposed water as the single substance from which everything in the world was made and developed a model of the universe with Earth as a flat disk floating in water.
He doubted that the world and all its contents could be made of water and proposed instead a formless and unobservable substance he called   apeiron   that was the source of all matter.
Anaximander is credited with drawing up the first world map of the Greeks and also with recognizing that Earth  s surface was curved.
The world, according to Anaximenes, was not composed of either water or apeiron, but air itself was the fundamental element of the universe.
A scientific theory about the universe, however demands much more than the various observations and analogies that were woven together to form systems of reasoning, carefully constructed as they were, that would eventually culminate in Aristotle  s model of the world and the universe.
In an ideal world, the Forest Service would manage and restore the forests, thin them out, and remove the dense understory by cutting or by controlled small fires.
It coexists with hochxo ("ugliness," or "evil," and "disorder") in a world where opposing forces of dynamism and stability create constant change.
When the world, which was created in beauty, becomes ugly and disorderly, the Navajo gather to perform rituals with songs and make sand paintings to restore beauty and harmony to the world.
By re-creating these arts, which reflect the original beauty of creation, the Navajo bring beauty to the present world.
As relative newcomers to the Southwest, a place where their climate, neighbors, and rulers could be equally inhospitable, the Navajo created these art forms to affect the world around them, not just through the recounting of the actions symbolized, but through the beauty and harmony of the artworks themselves.
As they prepare their materials and weave, Navajo women imitate the transformations that originally created the world.
Working on their looms, Navajo weavers create images through which they experience harmony with nature it is their means of creating beauty and thereby contributing to the beauty, harmony, and healing of the world.
Thus, weaving is a way of seeing the world and being part of it.
The change from redistribution to formal trade-often based on regulated commerce that perhaps involved fixed prices and even currency  was closely tied to growing political and social complexity and hence to the development of the state in the ancient world.
The Galapagos island chain is one of the world's greatest showcases of evolution.
Dinosaurs rapidly became extinct about 65 million years ago as part of a mass extinction known as the K-T event, because it is associated with a geological signature known as the K-T boundary, usually a thin band of sedimentation found in various parts of the world (K is the traditional abbreviation for the Cretaceous, derived from the German name Kreideieit).
Ganymede is a differentiated world, like the terrestrial planets.
Ganymede is not a dead world, but rather a place of continuing geological activity powered by an internal heat source.
In the next generation thousands of Greek traders and artisans would enter this wider world to seek their fortunes.
Towns and cities were established not only as garrisons (military posts) but as centers for the diffusion of Greek language, literature, and thought, particularly through libraries, as at Antioch (in modern Turkey) and the most famous of all, at Alexandria in Egypt, which would be the finest in the world for the next thousand years.
Greek philosophy  or even a focus on conscience  might complement religion but was no substitute for it, and this made Greeks receptive to the religious systems of the Middle East, even if they never adopted them completely The combination of the religious instinct of Asia with the philosophic spirit of Greece spread across the world in the era after Alexander  s death, blending the culture of the Middle East with the culture of Greece.
How much oil is there in the world?
Using this approach and considering all the sedimentary basins of the world, experts estimate that somewhere between 1,500 and 3,000 billion barrels of oil will eventually be discovered.
The flooding of Britain with red-gloss pottery form Gaul (modern-day France), decorated with scenes from Classical mythology, probably brought many into contact with the styles and artistic concepts of the Greco-Roman world for the first time, whether or not the symbolism was understood.
Although exceptional, this demonstrates how new cultural symbols bound provincials to the identify of the Roman world. 
Nothing divided the medieval world in Europe decisively from the Early Modern period than printing with movable type.
The world of antiquity had recorded its writings mainly on papyrus.
Imports included a variety of new beverages, spices, and ship  s goods around the world and brought money flowing back.
Internally, Britain was endowed with easily navigable natural waterway, which helped its trade and communication with the world.
