It is held there by the force of surface tension without which water would drain instantly from any wet surface, leaving it totally dry.
Such legs would have been far too small to have supported the 50-foot-long Basilosaurus on land.
Edison was more interested in the sale of Kinetoscopes (for roughly $1,000 apiece) to these parlors than in the films that would be run in them (which cost approximately $10 to $15 each).
He refused to develop projection technology, reasoning that if he made and sold projectors, then exhibitors would purchase only one machine-a projector-from him instead of several.
Even though early exhibitors shaped their film programs by mixing films and other entertainments together in whichever way they thought would be most attractive to audiences or by accompanying them with lectures, their creative control remained limited.
Unfortunately, the cost of water obtained through any of these schemes would increase pumping costs at least tenfold, making the cost of irrigated agricultural products from the region uncompetitive on the national and international markets.
Even if this process proves successful, however, it would almost triple water costs.
In that case, the climax community would be considered the most stable, since, by definition, it changes the least over time.
In that case, climax communities would be the most fragile and the least stable, since they can require hundreds of years to return to the climax state.
We might expect that early artistic efforts would be crude, but the cave paintings of Spain and southern France show a marked degree of skill.
For example, wild cattle (bovines) and horses are portrayed more often than we would expect by chance, probably because they were larger and heavier (meatier) than other animals in the environment.
If this is true, it would mean that Upper Paleolithic people were capable of complex thought and were consciously aware of their environment.
Toxic minerals would first be absorbed by roots but later relocated to the stem and leaves.
A harvest of the shoots would remove the toxic compounds off site to be burned or composted to recover the metal for industrial uses.
After several years of cultivation and harvest, the site would be restored at a cost much lower than the price of excavation and reburial, the standard practice for remediation of contaminated soils.
For example, British anthropologists G. Elliot Smith and W. J. Perry assumed that only Egyptians would have been skilled enough to navigate and colonize the Pacific.
Detailed studies of the winds and currents using computer simulations suggest that drifting canoes would have been a most unlikely means of colonizing the Pacific.
Older children and adults often try to retrieve the names of things they saw, but infants would not have encoded the information verbally.
The psychological controls were built on fear and punishment  on the absolute certainty that anyone or anything that threatened the authority of Rome would be utterly destroyed.
Certainly, in trying to explain the Roman phenomenon, one would have to place great emphasis on this almost instinct for the territorial imperative.
Had the Greeks held novelty in such disdain as we,   asked Horace in his epistle,   what work of ancient date would now exist?  
Yet it would be wrong to suggest that Rome was somehow a junior partner in Greco-Roman civilization.
The thriving obsidian operation, for example, would necessitate more miners, additional manufacturers of obsidian tools, and additional traders to carry the goods to new markets.
All this led to increased wealth, which in turn would attract more immigrants to Teotihuac  n. The growing power of the elite, who controlled the economy, would give them the means to physically coerce people to move to Teotihuac  n and serve as additions to the labor force.
More irrigation works would have to be built to feed the growing population, and this resulted in more power and wealth for the elite.
It  s hard to understand why they would not be affected, whereas dinosaurs were left too crippled to cope, especially if, as some scientists believe, dinosaurs were warm-blooded.
These calculations suggest that a period of about one million years would have been required.
This disruption of food chain and climate would have eradicated the dinosaurs and other organisms in less than fifty years.
This route would have enabled humans to enter southern areas of the Americas prior to the melting of the continental glaciers.
This would have created a barrier of ice extending from the Alaska Peninsula, through the Gulf of Alaska and southward along the Northwest Coast of north America to what is today the state of Washington. 
It has been suggested that if the environment were capable of supporting breeding populations of bears, there would have been enough food resources to support humans.
They were concerned that many would be   drawn to these new, refreshing   conceptions of teaching only to find that the void between the abstractions and the realities of teacher reflection is too great to bridge.
Much of the potential for European economic development lay in what at first glance would seem to have been only sleepy villages.
The exchanger would then send a bill of exchange to a colleague in Marseille, authorizing the colleague to pay the Marseille merchant in the merchant's own currency after the actual exchange of goods had taken place.
Other statues were designed to be placed within an architectural setting, for instance, in front of the monumental entrance gateways to temples known as pylons, or in pillared courts, where they would be placed against or between pillars: their frontality worked perfectly within the architectural context.
The question is not why they would leave the cold of winter so much as how they find their way around.
Early in his research, Kramer found that caged migratory birds became very restless at about the time they would normally have begun migration in the wild.
If the artificial Sun remained stationary, the birds would shift their direction with respect to it at a rate of about 15 degrees per hour, the Sun's rate of movement across the sky.
The answer lies apparently not in the increased energy costs of exaggerated begging  such energy costs are small relative to the potential gain in calories  but rather in the damage that any successful cheater would do to its siblings, which share genes with one another.
In stone toolmaking experiments, Nick Toth, a right-hander, held the core (the stone that would become the tool) in his left hand and the hammer stone in his right.
A left-handed toolmaker would produce the opposite pattern.
Though it may be difficult to imagine from a later perspective, a strain of critical opinion in the 1920s predicted that sound film would be a technical novelty that would soon fade from sight, just as had many previous attempts, dating well back before the First World War, to link images with recorded sound.
These critics were making a common assumption  that the technological inadequacies of earlier efforts (poor synchronization, weak sound amplification, fragile sound recordings) would invariably occur again.
To be sure, their evaluation of the technical flaws in 1920s sound experiments was not so far off the mark, yet they neglected to take into account important new forces in the motion picture field that, in a sense, would not take no for an answer.
Indeed, stability of the biological clock's period is one of its major features, even when the organism's environment is subjected to considerable changes in factors, such as temperature, that would be expected to affect biological activity strongly.
In low-elevation north coastal areas without sinkholes, the Maya would have been able to get down to the water table by digging wells up to 75 feet (22 meters) deep.
But the inhabitants of Tikal and other cities dependent on reservoirs for drinking water would still have been in deep trouble if 18 months passed without rain in a prolonged drought.
Gigantothermy, though, would not be enough to keep a leatherback warm in cold northern waters.
Some of the proposed mechanisms required a very brief period during which all extinctions suddenly took place; other mechanisms would be more likely to have taken place more gradually, over an extended period, or at different times on different continents.
The mass extinction would have occurred very suddenly under this hypothesis.
Debris thrown into the atmosphere by an asteroid collision would presumably contain large amounts of iridium, and atmospheric currents would carry this material all over the globe.
An asteroid of this size would be expected to leave an immense crater, even if the asteroid itself was disintegrated by the impact.
The intense heat of the impact would produce heat-shocked quartz in many types of rock.
Also, large blocks thrown aside by the impact would form secondary craters surrounding the main crater.
Sea level would rise about 60 meters.
This would change the geography of the planet considerably.
In contrast, should another ice age occur, sea level would drop drastically.
Because there is no space in the periodic table between these two elements, Mendeleyev suggested that the atomic mass of indium be changed to a completely different value, where it would fill an empty space between cadmium and tin.
For example, a gap just below aluminum suggested a new element would be found with properties analogous to those of aluminum.
One of the outer planets, Saturn, has a density of only 0.7 that of water, which means that Saturn would float in water.
In the green-to-yellow lighting conditions of the lowest levels of the forest, yellow and green would be the brightest colors, but when an animal is signaling, these colors would not be very visible if the animal was sitting in an area with a yellowish or greenish background.
In the second case, pollinators (insects, birds) obtain food from the flowering plant, and the plant has its pollen distributed and seeds dispersed much more efficiently than they would be if they were carried by the wind only.
Another example of mutualism would be the bull's horn acacia tree, which grows in Central and South America.
Another flaw of the tiredness theory is that yawning does not raise alertness or physiological activity, as the theory would predict.
Newly raised regiments were normally transferred to another province from whence it was unlikely that individual recruits would ever return.
In the early twentieth century, the American ecologist Frederic Clements pointed out that a succession of plant communities would develop after a disturbance such as a volcanic eruption, heavy flood, or forest fire.
Western Farmers borrowed with the confident expectation that the expanding economy would keep farm prices high, thus making it easy to repay loans when they fell due.
Geothermal energy is in a sense not renewable, because in most cases the heat would be drawn out of a reservoir much more rapidly than it would be replaced by the very slow geological processes by which heat flows through solid rock into a heat reservoir.
It was argued that once hunter-gatherers had occupied the whole world, the population started to grow everywhere and food became scarce; agriculture would have been a solution to this problem.
It would appear that the instability of the climatic conditions led populations that had originally been nomadic to settle down and develop a sedentary style of life, which led in turn to population growth and to the need to increase the amount of food available.
Importing the grain, which would have been expensive and time consuming for the Dutch to have produced themselves, kept the price of grain low and thus stimulated individual demand for other foodstuffs and consumer goods.
The residence time is an average; the time spent in the lake by a given molecule (if we could follow its fate) would depend on the route it took: it might flow through as part of the fastest, most direct current, or it might circle in a backwater for an indefinitely long time.
Instead, the most sensible thing would be for neighbors to combine efforts to produce as much food as possible, and thus aggregated towns were a sensible arrangement.
The ejecta surrounding the lunar crater is just what one would expect from an explosion ejecting a large volume of dust, soil, and boulders.However, the ejecta on Mars gives the distinct impression of a liquid that has splashed or flowed out of crater.
This would not be true of red and brown algae.
If so, the green algae would have been subjected to environmental pressures that resulted in adaptations that enhanced their potential to give rise to land-dwelling or organisms.
Once this was done and the silt carried down by the rivers was planted, the rewards were rich: four to five times what rain-fed earth would produce.
A major development was the discovery, again about 3000 B.C.E., that if copper, which had been known in Mesopotamia since about 3500 B.C.E., was mixed with tin, a much harder metal, bronze, would result.
When rolled over a soft material---primarily the clay of bullae (round seals), tablets, or clay lumps attached to boxes, jars, or door bolts---the scene would appear in relief, easily legible.
Today  s most northwest island would have been the first to form.
Then, as the plate moved slowly northwest, new volcanic islands would have forms as the plate moved over the volcanic source.
The most recent island, Hawaii, would be at the end of the chain and is now over the volcanic source.
When wolves later reached the island, naturalists widely assumed that the wolves would play a key role in controlling the moose population.
The wolves eat mostly old or diseased animals that would not survive long anyway.
This would be an obvious advantage to wide-ranging deer, especially to a socially dominant buck when courting several adult females during the autumn rut.
Furthermore, their regular and standardized shapes would have made them simple to stack and store.
When considering quantities, we would ideally like to have some estimates for overall production from particular sites of pottery manufacture and for overall consumption at specific settlements.
However, no one who has ever worked in the field would question the abundance of Roman pottery, particularly in the Mediterranean region.
An energy analyst writing in the year 1800 would have painted a very pessimistic picture of the future for waterpower.
However, like many later experts, this one would have suffered from an inability to see into the future.
The Benefits of play must outweigh the costs, or play would not have evolved, according to Darwin  s theory.
If evolution had been a continuous, gradual process, one might expect that almost every fossil specimen would be slightly different from every other. 
Experiments suggest that if fire did not occur in savannas in the Americas, species composition would change significantly.
They predicted that the colonies of aggressive species would show regular distributions, while those of nonaggressive species would show random or closely grouped (clumped) distribution.
But Russia  s potential for growth was limited too, and in a few decades Russia would reach the barrier of inadequate energy that was already holding England back.
Many of these intruders are herbivorous and would eat the leaves of the plants.
He called for proof of the protectionist view: that visitations of the ants confer protection on the plants and that in the absence of the protectionist view: that visitations of the ants confer protection on the plants and that in the absence of the insects a much greater number would perish or fail to produce flowers or seeds than when the insects are present.
In Henry's view, the adoption of a more settled existence in areas with abundant food resources would have contributed to higher fertility levels among the sedentary foragers.
Cereals, which are easy to digest, would have supplemented and then replaced mother's milk as the primary food for older infants.
Since women are less fertile when they are breast-feeding, substituting cereals for mother  s milk would have resulted in closer spacing of births and the potential for a greater number of live births for each woman.
A more popular belief at the time was that water at great depth would be compressed to such a density that nothing could sink through it.
As would later happen between another teacher-student pair of philosophers, Plato and Aristotle, Anaximander disagreed with his teacher despite his respect for him.
He believed, though, that the shape of Earth was that of a cylinder rather than the sphere that later Greek philosophers would conjecture.
Anaximander, observing the motions of the heavens around the polestar, was probably the first of the Greek philosophers to picture the sky as sphere completely surrounding Earth--an idea that, elaborated upon later, would prevail until the advent of the Scientific Revolution in the seventeenth century. 
A scientific theory about the universe, however demands much more than the various observations and analogies that were woven together to form systems of reasoning, carefully constructed as they were, that would eventually culminate in Aristotle  s model of the world and the universe.
Even though raccoons may not have been a significant part of their diet, wolves surely would have tried to prey on those exposed in relatively treeless areas.
A more sustainable approach would be to plant nontransgenic corn, monitor the fields throughout the growing season, and then apply a pesticide only if and when needed.
If so, these individuals would have been the last of their kind.
Because major habitat destruction seems to have occurred after moa populations already were depleted, and because some habitat that could have sheltered moa populations remained, it would seem that other factors were also at work in the extinction of these birds.
However, loggers concentrated on removing those big, old, valuable, fire-resistant ponderosa pines, while fire suppression for decades let the understory fill up with Douglas fir saplings that would in turn become valuable when full-grown.
In an ideal world, the Forest Service would manage and restore the forests, thin them out, and remove the dense understory by cutting or by controlled small fires.
But no politician or voter wants to spend what it would cost to do that.
Although area may contribute to biodiversity, it is certainly not the whole story; otherwise, large landmasses would always be richer in species.
In contrast to mammals and birds, amphibians are unable to produce thermal energy through their metabolic activity, which would allow them to regulate their body temperature independent of the surrounding or ambient temperature.
Venus and Earth are similar in size and mass, so Venusian volcanoes may well have outgassed as much water vapor as on Earth, and both planets would have had about the same number of comets strike their surfaces.
Thus water vapor would have been able to liquefy and form oceans on Venus.
If Earth became as hot as Venus, much of its carbon dioxide would be boiled out of the oceans and baked out of the crust Our planet would soon develop a thick, oppressive carbon dioxide atmosphere much like that of Venus.
But being closer to the Sun than Earth is, enough of the liquid water on Venus would have vaporized to create a thick cover of water vapor clouds.
Since water vapor is a greenhouse gas, this humid atmosphere-perhaps denser than Earth  s present-day atmosphere, but far less dense than the atmosphere that envelops Venus today  would have efficiently trapped heat from the Sun.
At first, this would have had little effect on the oceans of Venus.
Although the temperature would have climbed above 100   C, the boiling point of water at sea level on Earth, the added atmospheric pressure from water vapor would have kept the water in Venus' oceans in the liquid state.
But as the Sun  s energy output slowly increased over time, the temperature at the surface would eventually have risen above 374  C. Above this temperature, no matter what the atmospheric pressure, Venus   oceans would have begun to evaporate, and the added water vapor in the atmosphere would have increased the greenhouse effect.
This would have made the temperature even higher and caused the oceans to evaporate faster, producing more water vapor.
That, in turn, would have further intensified the greenhouse effect and made the temperature climb higher still.
Over time, the rising temperatures would have leveled off, solar ultraviolet radiation having broken down atmospheric water vapor molecules into hydrogen and oxygen.
With all the water vapor gone, the greenhouse effect would no longer have accelerated.
This fact surprised scientists, who expected that all the big icy moons would be differentiated It is much easier for an icy body to differentiate than for a rocky one, since the melting temperature of ice is so low.
In the next generation thousands of Greek traders and artisans would enter this wider world to seek their fortunes.
Towns and cities were established not only as garrisons (military posts) but as centers for the diffusion of Greek language, literature, and thought, particularly through libraries, as at Antioch (in modern Turkey) and the most famous of all, at Alexandria in Egypt, which would be the finest in the world for the next thousand years.
In decision making, the whole body of citizens together would have the necessary knowledge in order generally to reach the right decision, even though the individual might not be particularly qualified to decide.
), who lived at a time when the city-state system was declining, believed that a political entity of 100,000 simply would not be able to govern itself.
It would seem that they are becoming more frequent.
If there were periods of drought, any adaptations allowing the fish to survive the dry conditions would have been advantageous.
For the artist, this technique allows forms and linear perspective to be drawn precisely as they would be seen from a single viewpoint.
They are, therefore, capable of recycling nutrients into the ecosystem that would otherwise be trapped in the bottom and rendered unavailable.
If a number of people in the village were throwing letters off roofs, your friend would be bound to get one.
Even though mean levels may mask much higher local concentrations, it is still the case that many deep-sea animals are exposed to conditions in which a normal filter-feeder would starve
Writing, it would appear, started as a primitive form of bookkeeping.
An ecosystem could survive the loss of some species, but if enough species were lost, the ecosystem would be severely degraded.
Second, diverse ecosystems may be less likely to be invaded by new species, notably exotics (foreign species living outside their native range), that would disrupt the ecosystem  s structure and function.
A visitor from Rome would have recognized its owner as a participant in the contemporary culture of the empire, not at all provincial in taste.
Even if those from the traditional families looked down on him, they would have been unable to dismiss him as uncultured.
In the absence of a tradition of Classical stone-carving and building, the desire to develop Roman amenities would have been difficult to fulfill.
Darwin s theory was that the succession from one coral reef type to another could be achieved by the upward growth of coral from a sinking platform, and that there would be a progression from a fringing reef, through the barrier reef stage until, with the disappearance through subsidence (sinking) of the central island, only a reef-enclosed lagoon or atoll would survive.
Paleontologists would like to be much more specific about a dinosaur  s diet than simply differentiating carnivore from herbivore.
When the ice sheets grew, the sea level would drop as water became locked up in the glaciers; when the ice melted, the sea level would rise again.
Between Alaska and Asia today lies the Bering Strait, which is so shallow that a fall in sea level of only four meters would turn it into a land bridge.
Europe  s economic institutions, particularly those in England, were strong, had wealth available for new investment, and seemed almost to be waiting for some technological breakthrough that would expand their profit-making potential even more.
At the same time, people were moving to the city, partly because of the enclosure movement; that is, the fencing of common fields and pastures in order to provide more compact, efficient privately held agricultural parcels that would produce more goods and greater profits.
It was such people who began to flock to the cities seeking employment and who found work in the factories that would transform the nation and, the worl
