Pakicetus was found embedded in rocks formed from river deposits that were 52 million years old.
This whale lived around 40 million years ago, 12 million years after Pakicetus.
The now extinct whale Ambulocetus natans ("the walking whale that swam") lived in the Tethys Sea 49 million years ago.
It lived around 3 million years after Pakicetus but 9 million before Basilosaurus.
Continued gradual global warming has produced an increase in aridity for some areas over the past few thousand years.
These Kinetoscope arcades were modeled on phonograph parlors, which had proven successful for Edison several years earlier.
About a year after the opening of the first Kinetoscope parlor in 1894, showmen such as Louis and Auguste Lumiere, Thomas Armat and Charles Francis Jenkins, and Orville and Woodville Latham (with the assistance of Edison's former assistant, William Dickson) perfected projection devices.
Progress in this area can be measured by the difference in weight between buildings built now and those of comparable size built one hundred years ago.
This region has a semiarid climate, and for 50 years after its settlement, it supported a low-intensity agricultural economy of cattle ranching and wheat farming.
Water from rains and melting snows has been accumulating in the Ogallala for the past 30,000 years.
Estimates indicate that the aquifer contains enough water to fill Lake Huron, but unfortunately, under the semiarid climatic conditions that presently exist in the region, rates of addition to the aquifer are minimal, amounting to about half a centimeter a year.
The first wells were drilled into the Ogallala during the drought years of the early 1930s.
In places, the water table is declining at a rate of a meter a year, necessitating the periodic deepening of wells and the use of ever-more-powerful pumps.
It is estimated that at current withdrawal rates, much of the aquifer will run dry within 40 years.
It is projected that the remaining Ogallala water will, by the year 2030, support only 35 to 40 percent of the irrigated acreage in Texas that is supported in 1980.
Whatever the final answer to the water crisis may be, it is evident that within the High Plains, irrigation water will never again be the abundant, inexpensive resource it was during the agricultural boom years of the mid-twentieth century.
Pioneer and successional plant communities are said to change over periods from 1 to 500 years.
Climax communities themselves change but over periods of time greater than about 500 years.
An ecologist who studies a pond today may well find it relatively unchanged in a year  s time.
Individual fish may be replaced, but the number of fish will tend to be the same from one year to the next.
To take an extreme example, farmlands dominated by a single crop are so unstable that one year of bad weather or the invasion of a single pest can destroy the entire crop.
In that case, climax communities would be the most fragile and the least stable, since they can require hundreds of years to return to the climax state.
Later on in the early years of the nineteenth century, when Fort Vancouver became the headquarters of the Hudson's Bay Company, deer populations continued to fluctuate.
Some of those slabs appear to have been painted as much as 28,000 years ago, which suggests that painting in Africa is as old as painting in Europe.
The early Australians may have painted on the walls of rock shelters and cliff faces at least 30,000 years ago, and maybe as much as 60,000 years ago. 
Over long periods of time (millions of years), accumulations of gas and oil can collect in the sandy layers.
The Wilmington field near Long Beach, California, has subsided nine meters in 50 years; protective barriers have had to be built to prevent seawater from flooding the area.
After several years of cultivation and harvest, the site would be restored at a cost much lower than the price of excavation and reburial, the standard practice for remediation of contaminated soils.
The geologic timescale is marked by significant geologic and biological events, including the origin of Earth about 4.6 billion years ago, the origin of life about 3.5 billion years ago, the origin of eukaryotic life-forms (living things that have cells with true nuclei) about 1.5 billion years ago, and the origin of animals about 0.6 billion years ago.
During a geologically brief 100-million-year period, all modern animal groups (along with other animals that are now extinct) evolved.
One interpretation regarding the absence of fossils during this important 100-million-year period is that early animals were soft bodied and simply did not fossilize.
In fact, fossil beds containing soft-bodied animals have been known for many years. 
This 700-million-year-old formation gives few clues to the origins of modern animals, however, because paleontologists believe it represents an evolutionary experiment that failed.
Perhaps another ancient fossil bed of soft-bodied animals from 600-million-year-old seas is awaiting discovery.
Smith used mail coaches to travel as much as 10,000 miles per year.
Quartz is quartz  a silicon ion surrounded by four oxygen ions  there  s no difference at all between two-million-year-old Pleistocene quartz and Cambrian quartz created over 500 million years ago.
Some fossils endured through so many millions of years that they appear in many strata, but others occur only in a few strata, and a few species had their births and extinctions within one particular stratum.
Limestone may be found in the Cambrian or  300 million years later  in the Jurassic strata, but a trilobite  the ubiquitous marine arthropod that had its birth in the Cambrian  will never be found in Jurassic strata, nor a dinosaur in the Cambrian.
Few people can remember anything that happened to them in their early years.
Adults' memories of the next few years also tend to be scanty.
The sheer passage of time does not account for it; adults have excellent recognition of pictures of people who attended high school with them 35 years earlier.
Children two and a half to three years old remember experiences that occurred in their first year, and eleven month olds remember some events a year later.
Through hearing stories with a clear beginning, middle, and ending children may learn to extract the gist of events in ways that they will be able to describe many years later.
Consistent with this view, parents and children increasingly engage in discussions of past events when children are about three years old.
Telling such stories to two year olds does not seem to produce long-lasting verbalizable memories.
One question was related to evidence that the invertebrate fauna (animals without spines) of the Mediterranean had changed abruptly about 6 million years ago.
These structures had been detected years earlier by echo-sounding instruments, but they had never been penetrated in the course of drilling.
The investigators theorized that about 20 million years ago, the Mediterranean was a broad seaway linked to the Atlantic by two narrow straits.
Then, about 5.5 million years ago came the deluge.
The hard volcanic stone was a resource that had been in great demand for many years, at least since the rise of the Olmecs (a people who flourished between 1200 and 400 B.C.
Over a period of about 100,000 years, while the seas pulled back, climates around the world became dramatically more extreme: warmer days, cooler nights; hotter summers, colder winters.
These calculations suggest that a period of about one million years would have been required.
However, other reliable evidence suggests that the deposition of the boundary clay could not have taken one million years.
This disruption of food chain and climate would have eradicated the dinosaurs and other organisms in less than fifty years.
Runoff channels on Mars speak of a time 4 billion years ago (the age of the Martian highlands), when the atmosphere was thicker, the surface warmer, and liquid water widespread.
Flooding shaped the outflow channels approximately 3 billion years ago, about the same times as the northern volcanic plains formed.
The first water craft theory about this migration was that around 11,000-12,000 years ago there was an ice-free corridor stretching from eastern Beringia to the areas of North America south of the great northern glaciers.
Support is growing for the alternative theory that people using watercraft, possibly skin boats, moved southward from Beringia along the Gulf of Alaska and then southward along the Northwest coast of North America possibly as early as 16,000 years ago.
More recent geologic studies documented deglaciation and the existence of ice-free areas throughout major coastal areas of British Columbia, Canada, by 13,000 years ago.
One study suggests that except for a 250-mile coastal area between southwestern British Columbia and Washington State, the Northwest Coast of North America was largely free of ice by approximately 16,000 years ago.
Vast areas along the coast may have been deglaciated beginning around 16,000 years ago, possibly providing a coastal corridor for the movement of plants, animals, and humans sometime between 13,000 and 14,000 years ago. 
The coastal hypothesis has gained increasing support in recent years because the remains of large land animals, such as caribou and brown bears, have been found in southeastern Alaska dating between 10,000 and 12,500 years ago.
Fladmark and other believe that the first human colonization of America occurred by boat along the Northwest Coast during the very late Ice Age, possibly as early as 14,000 years ago.
The most recent geologic evidence indicates that it may have been possible for people to colonize ice-free regions along the continental shelf that were still exposed by the lower sea level between13,000 and 14,000 years ago.
They designed an experimental strategy for a group of teachers in Virginia and worked with 40 practicing teachers over several years.
When the Hawaiian Islands emerged from the sea as volcanoes, starting about five million years ago, they were far removed from other landmasses.
Many millions of years after ferns evolved (but long before the Hawaiian Islands were born from the sea), another kind of flora evolved on Earth: the seed-bearing plants.
Over long periods of time, substances whose physical and chemical properties change with the ambient climate at the time can be deposited in a systematic way to provide a continuous record of changes in those properties overtime, sometimes for hundreds or thousands of years.
What the proxy records make abundantly clear is that there have been significant natural changes in the climate over timescales longer than a few thousand years.
Equally striking, however, is the relative stability of the climate in the past 10,000 years (the Holocene period).
When such statues are viewed in isolation, out of their original context and without knowledge of their function, it is easy to criticize them for their rigid attitudes that remained unchanged for three thousand years.
The question perplexed people for years, until, in the 1950s, a German scientist named Gustave Kramer provided some answers and, in the process, raised new questions.
A planetarium is essentially a theater with a domelike ceiling onto which a night sky can be projected for any night of the year.
The skeleton of a 40- or 50-year-old Nabatean warrior, buried 2,000 years ago in the Negev Desert, Israel, had multiple healed fractures to the skull, the left arm, and the ribs.
Toth has applied these criteria to the similarly made pebble tools from a number of early sites (before 1.5 million years) at Koobi Fora, Kenya, probably made by Homo habilis.
The part of the brain responsible for fine control and movement is located in the left cerebral hemisphere, and the findings above suggest that the human brain was already asymmetrical in its structure and function not long after 2 million years ago.
Among Neanderthalers of 70,000 C35,000 years ago, Marcellin Boule noted that the La Chapelle-aux-Saints individual had a left hemisphere slightly bigger than the right, and the same was found for brains of specimens from Neanderthal, Gibraltar, and La Quina. 
In Europe it took a little longer, mainly because there were more small producers for whom the costs of sound were prohibitive, and in other parts of the world problems with rights or access to equipment delayed the shift to sound production for a few more years (though cinemas in major cities may have been wired in order to play foreign sound films).
In recent years, groundwater has become an increasingly important source of freshwater for desert dwellers.
The term "fossil" describes water that has been present for several thousand years.
These aquifers became saturated more than 10,000 years ago and are no longer being recharged.
The rate of movement may be very slow: in the Indus plain, the movement of saline (salty) groundwaters has still not reached equilibrium after 70 years of being tapped.
Horseshoe crabs kept in the dark continuously for a year were found to maintain a persistent rhythm of brain activity that similarly adapts their eyes on a daily schedule for bright or for weak light.
The author George Comstock suggested that less than a quarter of children between the ages of six and eight years old understood standard disclaimers used in many toy advertisements and that disclaimers are more readily comprehended when presented in both audio and visual formats.
Advertisements for breakfast cereals have, for many years, been found to be especially fond of fantasy techniques, with almost nine out of ten including such content.
Properly speaking, tropical rainforests grow in high-rainfall equatorial areas that remain wet or humid all year round.
From north to south in the Yucatan Peninsula, where the Maya lived, rainfall ranges from 18 to 100 inches (457 to 2,540 millimeters) per year, and the soils become thicker, so that the southern peninsula was agriculturally more productive and supported denser populations.
But rainfall in the Maya homeland is unpredictably variable between years; some recent years have had three or four times more rain than other years.
There was one such event at the end of the Cretaceous period (around 70 million years ago).
There was another, even larger, mass extinction at the end of the Permian period (around 250 million years ago).
American paleontologists David Raup and John Sepkoski, who have studied extinction rates in a number of fossil groups, suggest that episodes of increased extinction have recurred periodically, approximately every 26 million years since the mid-Cretaceous period.
Of the various hypotheses attempting to account for the late Cretaceous extinctions, the one that has attracted the most attention in recent years is the asteroid-impact hypothesis first suggested by Luis and Walter Alvarez.
The force of collision spewed large amounts of debris into the atmosphere, darkening the skies for several years before the finer particles settled.
Glaciers are slowly moving masses of ice that have accumulated on land in areas where more snowfalls during a year than melts.
A surplus allows snow to accumulate and for the pressure of snow accumulated over the years to transform buried snow into glacial ice with a depth great enough for the ice to flow.
Here water may be stored in ice form for hundreds or even hundreds of thousands of years before being released again into the liquid water system as meltwater.
In the recent past, from about 2.4 million to about 10,000 years ago, nearly a third of Earth  s land area was periodically covered by ice thousands of meters thick.
Just five years later an element with the proper atomic mass was isolated and named gallium by its discoverer.
The virus was less deadly to the offspring of surviving rabbits, however, and it caused less and less harm over the years.
About the closest any research has come to supporting the tiredness theory is to confirm that adults yawn more often on weekdays than at weekends, and that school children yawn more frequently in their first year at primary school than they do in kindergarten.
The reverse process brought young men to Britain, where many continued to live after their 20 to 25 years of service, and this added to the cosmopolitan Roman character of the frontier population.
The drift of the last glaciation was deposited during one of the most recent epochs of geologic time, the Pleistocene, which lasted from 1.8 million to 10,000 years ago.
Within 2,000 years, the human population of the region numbered in the tens of thousands, all as a result of village life and farming.
For the next 1,500 years, its inhabitants enjoyed a somewhat warmer and damper climate than today, living in a well-wooded steppe area where wild cereal grasses were abundant.
Indeed, unaltered shells of marine invertebrates are known from deposits over 100 million years old.
The Middle Eocene Messel Shale (from about 48 million years ago) of Germany accumulated in such an environment.
Climatic changes at the end of the glacial period 13,000 years ago have been proposed to account for the emergence of farming.
The temperature increased dramatically in a short period of time (years rather than centuries), allowing for a growth of the hunting-gathering population due to the abundance of resources.
It is archaeologist Steven Mithen's thesis, brilliantly developed in his book The Prehistory of the Mind (1996), that approximately 40,000 years ago the human mind developed cognitive fluidity, that is, the integration of the specializations of the mind: technical, natural history (geared to understanding the behavior and distribution of natural resources), social intelligence, and the linguistic capacity.
Most people are not able to recount memories for experiences prior to the age of three years, a phenomenon called infantile amnesia.
Perhaps the explanation goes back to some ideas raised by influential Swiss psychologist Jean Piaget  namely, that children under age two years represent events in a qualitatively different form than older children do.
According to this line of thought, the verbal abilities that blossom in the two year old allow events to be coded in a form radically different from the action-based codes of the infant.
Verbal abilities of one year olds are, in fact, related to their memories for events one year later.
When researchers had one year olds imitate an action sequence one year after they first saw it, there was correlation between the children's verbal skills at the time they first saw the event and their success on the later memory task.
The development of an understanding of the self becomes evident between the first and second years of life and shows rapid elaboration in subsequent years.
When parents talk with children about "what we did today" or "last week" or "last year," they guide the children's formation of a framework for talking about the past.
Work has begun to determine the feasibility of using insects as biological controls, but effective biological controls are considered years away.
Even with a massive effort, it is doubtful that complete eradication of Spartina from nonnative habitats is possible, for it has become an integral part of these shorelines and estuaries during the last 100 to 200 years.
Currently, reliable scientific evidence dates the earliest creation of art on rock surfaces in Australia to somewhere between 30,000 and 50,000 years ago.
Furthermore, the designs were covered with   desert varnish,   a glaze that develops on rock surfaces over thousands of years of exposure to the elements.
Indeed, sites with engravings of geometric shapes are also to be found on the island of Tasmania, which was separated from the mainland of the continent some 10,000 years ago.
While accepting that this sequence fits the archaeological profile of those sites, which were occupied continuously over many thousands of years a number of writers have warned that the underlying assumption of such a sequence  a development from the simple and the geometric to the complex and naturalistic  obscures the cultural continuities in Aboriginal Australia, in which geometric symbolism remains fundamentally important.
They range from a few days for small lakes up to several hundred years for large ones; Lake Tahoe, in California, has a residence time of 700 years.
The residence times for the Great Lakes of North America, namely, Lakes Superior, Michigan, Huron, Erie, and Ontario, are, respectively, 190,100,22,2.5, and 6 years.
The result has been that the residence time of one of the lakes increased from 5 to 18 years during the study period.
Scholars believe that this cooperation allowed people to contend with a patchy environment in which precipitation and other resources varied across the landscape: if you produce a lot of food one year, you might trade it for pottery made by a distant ally who is having difficulty with crops  and the next year, the flow of goods might go in the opposite direction.
Although the climate remained as unpredictable as ever between one year and   the next, it became much less locally diverse.
In a bad year for farming, everyone was equally affected.
Scientists have no direct evidence for recent or ongoing eruptions, but if these volcanoes were active as recently as 100 million, years ago (an estimate of the time of last "eruption based on the extent of impact cratering on their slopes), some of them may still be at least intermittently active.
Millions of years, though, may pass between eruptions.
Age estimates ranging from four billion years for Mars's southern highlands to a few hundred million years in the youngest volcanic areas were obtained in this way.
When plants first made the transition ashore more than 400 million years ago, the land was barren and desolate, inhospitable to life.
For years historians have sought to identify crucial elements in the eighteenth-century rise in industry, technology, and economic power Known as the Industrial Revolution, and many give prominence to the problem of energy.
Given a year of favorable precipitation, such plants will develop vigorously and produce large numbers of flowers and fruit.
The seeds then lie dormant until the next wet year, when the desert blooms again.
The earliest, that of Eridu, about 4500 B.C.E., and Uruk, a thousand years later, center on impressive temple complexes built of mud brick.
The oldest volcanoes in the Hawaii hot-spot trail have ages close to 80 million years.
So the position of the Pacific Plate 50 million years ago can be determined by moving it such that a 50-million-year-old volcano in the hot-spot trail sits at the location of Hawaii today.
Ecologists studying hare populations have found that the North American snow shoe hare follows a roughly ten-year cycle.
Once the hare population has declined, it takes two to three year for the quantity of twigs to recover.
The Canada lynx shows a ten-year cycle of abundance that parallels the abundance cycle of hares.
In particularly wet years, short stretches of an otherwise dry stream-bed may have flowing water because the water table rises to intersect the land surface.
Most are made by older males, although females and younger males (2.5 years old or less) occasionally make scrapes.
The effects of such competition are graphically demonstrated when all the animals or all the plants in an ecosystem come into competition, as happened 2 million years ago at the end of the Pliocene, when North and South America became joined by the Isthmus of Panama.
No one knows exactly when the waterwheel was invented, but irrigation systems existed at least 5,000 years ago, and it seems probable that the earliest waterpower device was the noria, a waterwheel that raised water for irrigation in attached jars.
An energy analyst writing in the year 1800 would have painted a very pessimistic picture of the future for waterpower.
In 1832, the year of Michael Faraday's discovery that a changing magnetic field produces an electric field, a young French engineer patented a new and more efficient waterwheel.
The waterwheel, unaltered for nearly 2,000 years, had finally been superseded.
From this primitive start, the electric industry grew during the final 20 years of the nineteenth century at a rate seldom if ever exceeded by any technology.
Many species appear to remain unchanged in the fossil record for millions of years    a situation that seems to be at odds with Darwin  s model of continuous change.
A convincing 50-million-year sequence of modern horse ancestors    each slightly larger, with more complex teeth, a longer face, and a more prominent central toe    seemed to provide strong support for Darwin  s contention that species evolve gradually.
Horses evolved in discrete steps, each of which persisted almost unchanged for millions of years and was eventually replaced by a distinctive newer model.
For example, Peter Sheldon  s studies of trilobites, a now extinct marine animal with a segmented body, offer a detailed glimpse into three million years of evolution in one marine environment.
About 5 million years ago such geologic movements created the land bridge between North America and South America that we call he Isthmus of Panama.
Not everyone agrees that programs that seek to enhance academic skills during the preschool years are a good thing.
Though plenty of rain may fall on a savanna during the year, for at least part of the year little does, creating the drought stress ultimately favoring grasses.
Most savannas probably experience mild fires frequently and major burns every two years or so.
A fertile, plowed field is rapidly invaded by a large variety of weeds, whereas a neighboring construction site from which the soil has been compacted or removed to expose a coarse, infertile parent material may remain virtually free of vegetation for many months or even years despite receiving the same input of seeds as the plowed field. 
For example, as many as 1,125 viable seeds per square meter were found in a 100-year-old Douglas fir/western hemlock forest in coastal British Columbia.
The average annual volume of rice exported from Siam grew from under 60 million kilograms per year in the late 1850s to more than 660 million kilograms per year at the turn of the century; and over the same period the average price per kilogram doubled.
The first farmers, who may have lived as long as 10,000 years ago, undoubtedly used simple techniques and still relied primarily on other forms of food production, such as hunting, foraging, or pastoralism.
An additional benefit was that the sediment carried by the river waters deposited nutrients in the soil, thus enabling the farmer to cultivate a single plot of ground for many years without moving to a new location.
By 1850 the United States possessed roughly 9,000 miles of railroad track; then years later it had over 30,000 miles, more than the rest of the world combined.
By the 1850s McCormick was selling 1,000 reapers a year and could not keep up with demand, while Deere turned out 10,000 plows annually.
Native Americans had grown corn in the region for years, but never in such large fields as did later settlers who became farmers, whose surpluses were shipped east.
It was not until the Cambrian period, beginning about 600 million years ago, that a great proliferation of macroscopic species occurred on Earth and produced a fossil record that allows us to track the rise and fall of biodiversity.
Starting about 280 million years ago, reptiles were the dominant large animals in terrestrial environments.
However, no group or species can maintain its dominance indefinitely, and when, after over 200 million years, the age of dinosaurs came to a dramatic end about 65 million years ago, mammals began to flourish, evolving from relatively few types of small terrestrial animals into the myriad of diverse species, including bats and whales, that we know today.
For many years scientists assumed that a cooling of the climate was responsible, with dinosaurs being particularly vulnerable because, like modern reptiles, they were ectothermic (dependent on environmental heat, or cold-blooded).
Explanations for the K-T extinction were revolutionized in 1980 when a group of physical scientists led by Luis Alvarez proposed that 65 million years ago Earth was stuck by a 10-kilometer-wide meteorite traveling at 90,000 kilometers per hour.
At locations around the globe, geologists had found an unusually high concentration of iridium in the layer of sedimentary rocks that was formed about 65 million years ago.
Most scientist came to accept the meteorite theory after evidence came to light that a circular formation, 180 kilometers in diameter in diameter and centered on the north coast of the Yucatan Peninsula, was created by a meteorite impact about 65 million years ago.
Within fifty years, the government in Baghdad was using paper for documents.
Around the year 900, Ibn Muqla, who was a secretary and vizier at the Abbasid court in Baghdad, developed a system of proportioned writing.
This view and the opposing   protectionist   hypothesis that ants defend plants hand been disputed for over a hundred years when, in 1910, a skeptical William Morton Wheeler commented on the controversy.
By noting that individual floods deposit only thin layers of sediment, he was able to conclude that the Nile Delta had taken many thousands of years to build up.
Typical numbers produced at the turn of the twentieth century were 100 million to 400 million years.
These underestimated the actual age by factors of 10 to 50 because much of the sedimentary record is missing in various locations and because there is a long rock sequence that is older than half a billion years that is far less well defined in terms of fossils and less well preserved.
Ages for Earth were derived that were in the tens of millions of years, much less than the geologic estimates of the lime.
From the initial work came a suite of discoveries leading to radio isotopic dating, which quickly led to the realization that Earth must be billions of years old, and to the discovery of nuclear fusion as an energy source capable of sustaining the Sun's luminosity for that amount of time.
By the 1960s, both analysis of meteorites and refinements of solar evolution models converged on an age for the solar system, and hence for Earth, of 4.5 billion years.
Archaeologist Donald Henry suggests that the combination of a rich habitat and sedentism (permanent, year-round settlement) led to a dramatic increase in human population.
In addition to the marked changes in abundance observed in phytoplankton over the course of a year, there is also a marked change in species composition.
This pattern is repeated yearly.
This succession is different from typical terrestrial ecological succession in which various plants replace one another until finally a so-called climax community develops, which persists for many years.
Considering that seasonal succession is most often and clearly seen in temperate seas, which have a marked change in temperature during a year, temperature has been suggested as a cause.
Another suggested reason is the change in nutrient level over the year, with differing concentrations favoring different phytoplankton species.
For a year and a half the Beacon crisscrossed the Aegean waters.
One of the most thoroughly analyzed examples of natural selection in operation is the change in color that has occurred in certain populations of the peppered moth, Biston betularia, in industrial regions of Europe during the past 100 years.
Is translocation successful if the individuals survive the first week or a year, or do they need to reproduce for one or several generations  Whatever the answer, it is clear that a general framework is required to ensure that any translocation is justified, has a realistic chance of success, and will be properly monitored and evaluated for the benefit of future efforts. 
From the year 1665, when English microscopist Robert Hooke discovered cells, until the middle of the twentieth century, biologists had only light microscopes for viewing cells.
Their appearance and subsequent flourishing in Utah  s Great Salt Lake valley within the last 40 years appears to be from such an introduction.
but this was about 50 years before raccoons started to spread out from their major habitat, the wooded river bottomlands.
Cuneiform writing lasted for some 3,000 years, in a vast line of succession that ran through Sumer, Akkad, Assyria, Nineveh, and Babylon, and preserved for us fifteen languages in an area represented by modern-day Iraq, Syria, and western Iran.
Remarkably, versions of Gilgamesh span 1,500 years, between 2100 B.C.E and 600 B.C.E., making the story the epic of an entire civilization.
Between 80 and 85 million years ago, Gondwanaland, a giant continent made up of what today is Africa, Antarctica, Australia, and South America, broke up, thus causing what is now New Zealand to become separated from the larger landmass.
Thus there are no New Zealand snakes, and bats, which flew there, and seals, which swam there, were the only mammals on New Zealand when Polynesian settlers (the Maori) arrived there about a thousand years ago.
When the Maori arrived in New Zealand, they encountered birds that had been evolving for 80 million years without the presence of mammalian predators.
However, the main forest burning started around 700 years ago, after what current archaeological evidence indicates was the most intensive stage of moa hunting.
The density of Maori settlements and artifacts increased substantially at the time of the most intensive moa hunting (900 to 600 years ago).
This recent increase in fires has resulted partly from climate change (the recent trend toward hot, dry summers) and partly from human activities, for complicated reasons that foresters came increasingly to understand about 30 years ago but whose relative importance is still debated.
This hot and humid state of affairs may have persisted for several hundred million years.
Bartering was a basic trade mechanism for many thousands of years; often sporadic and usually based on notions of reciprocity, it involved the mutual exchange of commodities or objects between individuals or groups.
For example, in less than two million years, small populations of stray animals and plants from the South American mainland that managed to colonize the Galapagos Islands gave rise to all the species that now inhabit the islands.
Dinosaurs rapidly became extinct about 65 million years ago as part of a mass extinction known as the K-T event, because it is associated with a geological signature known as the K-T boundary, usually a thin band of sedimentation found in various parts of the world (K is the traditional abbreviation for the Cretaceous, derived from the German name Kreideieit).
For example, some have blamed dinosaur extinction on the development of flowering plants, which were supposedly more difficult to digest and could have caused constipation or indigestionexcept that flowering plants first evolved in the Early Cretaceous, about 60 million years before the dinosaurs died out.
Others have blamed extinction on competition from the mammals, which allegedly ate all the dinosaur eggs-except that mammals and dinosaurs appeared at the same time in the Late Triassic, about 190 million years ago, and there is no reason to believe that mammals suddenly acquired a taste for dinosaur eggs after 120 million years of coexistence.
According to one theory, the Age of Dinosaurs ended suddenly 65 million years ago when a giant rock from space plummeted to Earth.
Its noontime surface temperature is only about -140  C, so water ice is stable on its surface year-round.
The satellite was bom dead and has remained geologically dead for more than four billion years.
Much of its surface may be as young as half a billion years.
Alexander the Great took his Greek armies to the east and in only a few years completed his creation of an empire out of much of southwest Asia In the new empire, barriers to trade and the movement of peoples were removed; markets were put in touch with one another.
Towns and cities were established not only as garrisons (military posts) but as centers for the diffusion of Greek language, literature, and thought, particularly through libraries, as at Antioch (in modern Turkey) and the most famous of all, at Alexandria in Egypt, which would be the finest in the world for the next thousand years.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the highest ratio of oil and gas pools to volume of sediment is found in rock no older than 2.5 million years  young enough so that little of the petroleum has leaked away  and that nearly 60 percent of all oil and gas discovered so far has been found in strata that formed in the last 65 million years This does not mean that older rocks produced less petroleum; it simply means that oil in older rocks has had a longer time in which to leak away.
Every year during the months of December and January, a weak, warm countercurrent replaces the normally cold coastal waters.
Fishers in this region have known the phenomenon for hundreds of years.
In fact, this is the time of year they traditionally set aside to tend to their equipment and await the return of cold water.
During the past 60 years, at least ten El Nifios have been observed Not only do El Niftos affect the temperature of the equatorial Pacific, but the strongest of them impact global weather.
Over 60 years ago, Sir Gilbert Walker, a British scientist, discovered a connection between surface pressure readings at weather stations on the eastern and western sides of the Pacific.
During a typical year, the eastern Pacific has a higher pressure than the western Pacific does.
However, in other years the Southern Oscillation, for unknown reasons, swings in the opposite direction, dramatically changing the usual conditions described above, with pressure increasing in the western.
Records indicate that during the sixteenth century, an El Nino occurred on average every six years.
Evidence gathered over the past few decades indicates that El Ninos are now occurring on average a little over every two years.
Snowstorms in the northeast portion of the United States were more frequent and intense than in most years.
However, by the Devonian Period (408 million to 362 million years ago), they had radiated into almost all available aquatic habitats, including freshwater settings.
In recent times the British artist David Hockney has published his investigations into the secret use of the camera obscura, claiming that for up to 400 years, many of Western art  s great masters probably used the device to produce almost photographically realistic details in their paintings.
Between 25,000 and 10,000 years ago, Siberia, the Bering Land Bndge, and Alaska shared many environmental characteristics.
The first was the discovery of a 1,000-square-kilometer preserved patch of Beringian vegetation dating to just over 17,000 years ago  the peak of the last ice age The plants were preserved under a thick ash fall from a volcanic eruption.
In the years to come, alliances with the middle classes were to enable kings to weaken aristocratic interests and build the states that came to be called modern.
Downing used the ratio of above-ground biomass in 1988 (after two years of drought) to that in 1986 (predrought) in 207 plots in a grassland field in the Cedar Creek Natural History Area in Minnesota as an index of ecosystem response to disruption by drought.
Plots with more than ten species had about half as much biomass in 1988 as in 1986, whereas those with fewer than five species only produced roughly one-eighth as much biomass after the two-year drought.
Apparently, species-rich plots were likely to contain some drought-resistant plant species that grew better in drought years, compensating for the poor growth of less-tolerant species.
The magnificent temple built beside the sacred spring at Bath was constructed only about twenty years after the conquest.
Coral reefs have fascinated scientists for almost 200 years, and some of the most pertinent observations of them were made in the 1830s by Charles Darwin on the voyage of the Beagle.
The drill holes passed through more than a thousand meters of coral before reaching the rock substratum of the ocean floor, and indicated that the coral had been growing upward for tens of millions of years as Earth's crust subsided at a rate of between 15 and 51 meters per million years.
If we accept these totals, we are confronted with a situation in which the Chinese population doubled in the 50 years from 1790 to 1840.
This technological advance took many forms: one was the continual introduction from the south of earlier-ripening varieties of rice, which made possible double-cropping (the production of two harvests per year from one field).
For more than a hundred years, it has been known that cities are generally warmer than surrounding rural areas.
Depending on the location, time of year, and time of day, any or all of the following differences between cities and their surroundings can be important: albedo (reflectivity of the surface), surface roughness, emissions of heat, emissions of moisture, and emissions of particles that affect net radiation and the growth of cloud droplets.
When the ice sheets were at their greatest extent some 18,000 years ago (the glacier maximum), it is thought that the fall was about 120 meters, which therefore created not merely a bridge but a vast plain, 1,000 kilometers from the north to the south, which has been called Beringia.
mark the position of the shoreline at a time of maximum inundation by the sea (6,500-5,500 years ago), when, through tectonic movement, the sea was three to five meters higher in relation to the contemporary landmass of Japan than at present.
In the years 1446-1448, two German goldsmiths, Johannes Gutenberg and Johann Fust, made use of cheap paper to introduce a critical improvement in the way written pages were reproduced.
But by 1500, after only 45 years of the printed book, there were 9 million in circulation.
