They breathe through lungs, not through gills, and give birth to live young.
Typically, older leaves are affected first as the phosphorus is mobilized to young growing tissue.
Iron deficiency is characterized by chlorosis between veins in young leaves.
A slightly younger fossil formation containing animal remains is the Tommotian formation, named after a locale in Russia.
Particularly in the younger strata, the rocks were often so similar that he had trouble distinguishing the strata, but he never had trouble telling the fossils apart.
However, hearing such stories is not sufficient for younger children to form enduring memories.
This view is supported by a variety of factors that can create mismatches between very young children's encoding and older children's and adults' retrieval efforts.
Nourished by their imported supply of nutrients, the young plants push out their roots and establish their place in the sun. 
The young of ground-nesting warblers produce begging cheeps of higher frequencies than do their tree-nesting relatives.
Indeed, if you take baby tree swallows out of a nest for an hour feeding half the set and starving the other half, when the birds are replaced in the nest, the starved youngsters beg more loudly than the fed birds, and the parent birds feed the active beggars more than those who beg less vigorously.
Fantasy is one of the more common techniques in advertising that could possibly mislead a young audience.
Generally, there is uncertainty as to whether very young children can distinguish between fantasy and reality in advertising.
Although a small proportion of the total population, this perhaps had a massive local impact when a large proportion of the young men were removed from an area.
The reverse process brought young men to Britain, where many continued to live after their 20 to 25 years of service, and this added to the cosmopolitan Roman character of the frontier population.
Finally, younger ecologists have found ecological problems involving behavior and life-history adaptations more attractive than measuring physical constants.
The question of why infantile amnesia occurs has intrigued psychologists for decades, especially in light of ample evidence that infants and young children can display impressive memory capabilities.
Age estimates ranging from four billion years for Mars's southern highlands to a few hundred million years in the youngest volcanic areas were obtained in this way.
Older workers had been allowed to stop work a half hour before the regular time, and in 1601 younger works left with them.
This forehead rubbing behavior coincides with a high level of glandular activity in the modified scent glands found on the foreheads of male deer; the glandular activity causes the forehead pelage (hairy covering) of adult males to be distinctly darker than in females or younger males.
Most are made by older males, although females and younger males (2.5 years old or less) occasionally make scrapes.
In 1832, the year of Michael Faraday's discovery that a changing magnetic field produces an electric field, a young French engineer patented a new and more efficient waterwheel.
Therefore, it results in the loss of fuel or energy that might better be used for growth or for building up fat stores in a young animal.
In one research study, two groups of young rats were raised under different conditions.
Prey species, like young deer or goats, for example, typically play by performing sudden flight movements and turns, whereas predator species, such as cats, practice stalking, pouncing, and biting.
Play allows a young animal to explore its environment and practice skills in comparative safety since the surrounding adults generally do not expect the young do deal with threats or predators.
Learning appropriate social behaviors is especially important in species that live in groups, like young monkeys that need to learn to control selfishness and aggression and to understand the give-and-take involved in social groups.
In fact, according to developmental psychologist David Elkind, United States society tends to push children so rapidly that they begin to feel tress and pressure at a young age.
In the early 1760s, a gifted young Scot named James Watt was drawn to a critical study of the steam engine.
But after only a decade  s growth until the next fire, those young seedling plants are still too low for fire to spread from them into the crowns of the ponderosa pine trees.
When a fire finally does start in a sapling-choked forest, whether due to lightning or human carelessness or (regrettably often) intentional arson, the dense, tall saplings young trees) may become a ladder that allows the fire to jump into the crowns of the trees.
Much of its surface may be as young as half a billion years.
The younger terrain is the result of tectonic and volcanic forces.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the highest ratio of oil and gas pools to volume of sediment is found in rock no older than 2.5 million years  young enough so that little of the petroleum has leaked away  and that nearly 60 percent of all oil and gas discovered so far has been found in strata that formed in the last 65 million years This does not mean that older rocks produced less petroleum; it simply means that oil in older rocks has had a longer time in which to leak away.
At one time, these were thought to represent embryonic animals, suggesting that this small dinosaur gave birth to live young rather than laying eggs.
Further research indicated that the small dinosaurs were too large and too well developed to be prehatchling young.
