Even in the areas that retain a soil cover, the reduction of vegetation typically results in the loss of the soil's ability to absorb substantial quantities of water.
The gradual drying of the soil caused by its diminished ability to absorb water results in the further loss of vegetation, so that a cycle of progressive surface deterioration is established. 
The soil is the source of these minerals, which are absorbed by the plant with the water from the soil.
Even nitrogen, which is a gas in its elemental state, is normally absorbed from the soil as nitrate ions.
Toxic minerals would first be absorbed by roots but later relocated to the stem and leaves.
The fungi absorb moisture and mineral salts from the rocks, passing these on in waste products that nourish algae.
A leatherback may be able to pick up some body heat by basking at the surface; its dark, almost black body color may help it to absorb solar radiation.
An example of a parasite is a tapeworm that lives inside the intestines of a larger animal and absorbs nutrients from its host.
Thus, more of the heavy isotope is left behind in the ocean and absorbed by marine organisms.
Shortwave radiation from the Sun passes through the pollution dome more easily than outgoing longwave radiation does; the latter is absorbed by the gaseous pollutants of the dome and reradiated back to the urban surface. 
Most plant tissues die if their water content falls too low: the nutrients that feed plants are transmitted by water; water is a raw material in the vital process of photosynthesis; and water regulates the temperature of a plant by its ability to absorb heat and because water vapor lost to the atmosphere through the leaves helps to lower plant temperatures.
In contrast to other productivity in the ocean, which is confined to various species of algae and bacteria dependent on nutrient concentrations in the water column, seagrasses are rooted plants that absorb nutrients from the sediment or substrate.
In cities, where less vegetation and exposed soil exist, the majority of the Sun  s energy is absorbed by urban structures and asphalt.
