In other cases, the finer particles may be removed, while the sand-sized particles are accumulated to form mobile hills or ridges of sand. 
Microscopic organisms settle to the seafloor and accumulate in marine mud.
Soon layer of oceanic ooze began to accumulate above the old hard layer.
Without the external cue, the difference accumulates and so the internally regulated activities of the biological day drift continuously, like the tides, in relation to the solar day.
If you are constantly on the move, you cannot afford to accumulate large material surpluses.
Such rules limit variations in accumulated material goods between pastoralist households (though they may also encourage a taste for portable goods of high value such as silks or jewelry).
Glaciers are slowly moving masses of ice that have accumulated on land in areas where more snowfalls during a year than melts.
A surplus allows snow to accumulate and for the pressure of snow accumulated over the years to transform buried snow into glacial ice with a depth great enough for the ice to flow.
Leaves and tissue of soft-bodied organisms such as jellyfish or worms may accumulate, become buried and compressed, and lose their volatile constituents.
The Middle Eocene Messel Shale (from about 48 million years ago) of Germany accumulated in such an environment.
Their remains accumulated on the floor of the lake and were then covered by clay and silt.
In the absence of gene flow between the subpopulations, genetic differences between the groups begin to accumulate.
With no oceans to dissolve it, outgassed carbon dioxide began to accumulate in the atmosphere, intensifying the greenhouse effect even more.
Guesses involve the use of accumulated experience from a century of drilling.
The slowing of wave action and currents means that seagrass beds tend to accumulate sediment.
Seagrass beds under the influence of strong currents tend to have many of the lighter particles, including seagrass debris, moved out, whereas beds in weak current areas accumulate lighter detrital material.
It is interesting that temperate seagrass beds accumulate sediments from sources outside the beds, whereas tropical seagrass beds derive most of their sediments from within.
Since most seagrass systems are depositional environments, they eventually accumulate organic material that leads to the creation of fine-grained sediments with a much higher organic content than that of the surrounding unvegetated areas.
