The skull also lacks a blowhole, another cetacean adaptation for diving.
Just as important, the culture also possessed the basic foundation for an effective maritime adaptation, including outrigger canoes and a variety of fishing techniques that could be effective for overseas voyaging.
Accomplishing this feat requires adaptations both to generate heat in the turtle  s body and to keep it from escaping into the surrounding waters.
Finally, younger ecologists have found ecological problems involving behavior and life-history adaptations more attractive than measuring physical constants.
The evolutionary history of plants has been marked by a series of adaptations.
If so, the green algae would have been subjected to environmental pressures that resulted in adaptations that enhanced their potential to give rise to land-dwelling or organisms.
These adaptations served their descendant well as they invaded land.
So once natural selection had shaped the adaptations that helped plants overcome the obstacles to terrestrial living, plants prospered and diversified.
The resulting adaptations to dry land include some structural features that arose early in plant evolution; now these features are common to virtually all land plant.
Other adaptations occurred later in the transition to terrestrial life and now wide spread but not universal among plants.
These adaptations allowed an increasing diversity of plant forms to exploit dry land.
They possess drought-resisting adaptations: loss of water through the leaves is reduced by means of dense hairs covering waxy leaf surfaces, by the closure of pores during the hottest times to reduce water loss, and by the rolling up or shedding of leaves at the beginning of the dry season.
Some plants are woody in type    an adaptation designed to prevent collapse of the plant tissue when water stress produces wilting.
Animals also have to adapt to desert conditions, and they may do it through two forms of behavioral adaptation: they either escape or retreat.
Some animals have behavioral, physiological, and morphological (structural) adaptations that enable them to withstand extreme conditions.
First, at least some of the observed differences between the enzymes of the Atlantic and Pacific fish populations were not random but were the result of evolutionary adaptation.
Many forest plants seem to exhibit the latter adaptation, and viable seeds of pioneer species can be found in large numbers on some forest floors.
An adaptation that is well developed in colonizing species is a high degree of variation in germination (the beginning of a seed  s growth).
The development of modern architecture might in large part be seen as an adaptation of this sort of functional building and its pervasive application for daily use.
Physiological adaptations can assist amphibians in colonizing habitats where extreme conditions prevail.
Frog species that remain exposed to the sun despite high diurnal (daytime) temperatures exhibit some fascinating modifications in the skin structure that function as morphological adaptations.
Avoidance behavior occurs whenever physiological and morphological adaptations are insufficient to maintain body temperature within the vital range.
If there were periods of drought, any adaptations allowing the fish to survive the dry conditions would have been advantageous.
In these rhipidistians  several such adaptations existed.
A second adaptation of these fish was in the structure of the lobe fins.
These adaptations developed because they helped fish to survive in their existing aquatic environment.
Further, nearly all of the ice-age fauna had teeth that indicate an adaptation to grasses and sedges; they could not have been supported by a modern flora of mosses and lichens.
There are various adaptations to help as much of the pollen go as far as possible.
Despite these adaptations, much of the pollen fails to leave the top branches, and only between 0.5 percent and 40 percent gets more than 100 meters away from the parent.
