Even in the areas that retain a soil cover, the reduction of vegetation typically results in the loss of the soil's ability to absorb substantial quantities of water.
In areas where considerable soil still remains, though, a rigorously enforced program of land protection and cover-crop planting may make it possible to reverse the present deterioration of the surface. 
In the early twentieth century, however, it was discovered that much of the High Plains was underlain by a huge aquifer (a rock layer containing large quantities of groundwater).
In the face of the upcoming water supply crisis, a number of grandiose schemes have been developed to transport vast quantities of water by canal or pipeline from the Mississippi, the Missouri, or the Arkansas rivers. 
In addition to finding an increase of suitable browse, like huckleberry and vine maple, Arthur Einarsen, longtime game biologist in the Pacific Northwest, found quality of browse in the open areas to be substantially more nutritive.
This scenario begins with the planting of hyperaccumulating species in the target area, such as an abandoned mine or an irrigation pond contaminated by runoff.
In 1969 he crossed the Atlantic in an Egyptian-style reed boat to prove Egyptian influences in the Americas.
Nor does the hypothesis that infantile amnesia reflects repression  or holding back  of sexually charged episodes explain the phenomenon.
A third likely explanation for infantile amnesia involves incompatibilities between the ways in which infants encode information and the ways in which older children and adults retrieve it.
These three explanations of infantile amnesia are not mutually exclusive; indeed, they support each other.
Thus, all three explanations  physiological maturation, hearing and producing stories about past events, and improved encoding of key aspects of events  seem likely to be involved in overcoming infantile amnesia.
A few managed to migrate into the Atlantic.
The investigators theorized that about 20 million years ago, the Mediterranean was a broad seaway linked to the Atlantic by two narrow straits.
As a result of crustal adjustments and faulting, the Strait of Gibraltar, where the Mediterranean now connects to the Atlantic, opened, and water cascaded spectacularly back into the Mediterranean.
Greek civilization had quality; Rome, mere quantity.
Once the idea of planting diffused, Africans began to develop their own crops, such as certain varieties of rice, and they demonstrated a continued receptiveness to new imports.
This last factor is at least circumstantially implicated in Teotihuac  n  s rise.
Photographic evidence suggests that liquid water once existed in great quantity on the surface of Mars.
In the seventeenth century, the trading activities of the Dutch East India Company resulted in vast quantities of decorated Chinese porcelain being brought to Europe, which stimulated and influenced the work of a wide variety of wares, notably Delft.
Proxy temperature records have been reconstructed from ice core drilled out of the central Greenland ice cap, calcite shells embedded in layered lake sediments in Western Europe, ocean floor sediment cores from the tropical Atlantic Ocean, ice cores from Peruvian glaciers, and ice cores from eastern Antarctica.
Large quantities of water may also be stored in limestones when joints and cracks have been enlarged to form cavities.
Second, responses are difficult to quantify.
Numerical increases are used as quantifiable indicators of heightened interest in the new stimulus.
In the meantime, however, this ice is not static.
The mercantile economy was also characterized by a peculiar moral stance that is typical of people who live by trade  an attitude that is individualistic, calculating, risk taking, and adaptive to circumstances.
As among tribespeople, personal relationships and a careful weighing of character have always been crucial in a mercantile economy with little regulation, where one's word is one's bond and where informal ties of trust cement together an international trade network.
The people of the Netherlands, with a long tradition of fisheries and mercantile shipping, had difficulty in developing good harbors suitable for steamships: eventually they did so at Rotterdam and Amsterdam, with exceptional results for transit trade with Germany and central Europe and for the processing of overseas foodstuffs and raw materials (sugar, tobacco, chocolate, grain, and eventually oil).
Economic exchange was clearly very important as the Roman army brought with it very substantial spending power.
Clements and other early ecologists saw almost lawlike regularity in the order of succession, but that has not been substantiated.
The spruce community is not substantially affected by either the presence or absence of moose.
The ecologist is concerned primarily with the quantities of matter and energy that pass through a given ecosystem, and with the rates at which they do so.
The European ancestors of some Americans had for centuries lived rooted to the same village or piece of land until some religious, political, or economic crisis uprooted them and drove them across the Atlantic.
Iceland sits on a volcanic structure known as the Mid-Atlantic Ridge.
Most people are not able to recount memories for experiences prior to the age of three years, a phenomenon called infantile amnesia.
The question of why infantile amnesia occurs has intrigued psychologists for decades, especially in light of ample evidence that infants and young children can display impressive memory capabilities.
Spartina alterniflora, known as cordgrass, is a deciduous, perennial flowering plant native to the Atlantic coast and the Gulf Coast of the United States.
The rapid technical development of photography  the introduction of lighter and simpler equipment, and of new emulsions that coated photographic plates, film, and paper and enabled images to be made at much faster speeds  had some unanticipated consequences.
The quantities involved are enormous.
Dutch agriculture was modernized and commercialized new crops and agricultural techniques raised levels of production so that they were in line with market demands, and cheap grain was imported annually from the Baltic region in large quantities.
Although the remarkable antiquity of Australia  s rock art is now established, the sequences and meanings of its images have been widely debated.
In the 1970s when the study of Australian archaeology was in an exciting phase of development, with the great antiquity of rock art becoming clear, Lesley Maynard, the archaeologist who coined the phrase   Panaramitee style,   suggested that a sequence could be determined for Australian rock art, in which a geometric style gave way to a simple figurative style (outlines of figures and animals), followed by a range of complex figurative styles that, unlike the pan-Australian geometric tradition tended to much greater regional diversity.
A given lake  s residence time is by no means a fixed quantity.
Prices of spices delivered by ship from the eastern Mediterranean came to equal those of spices transported by Paortuguese vessels, but the increase in quantity with both routes in operation drove the price far down.
As hare density increases, the quantity of these twigs decreases, forcing the hares to feed on low-quality, high-fiber food.
Once the hare population has declined, it takes two to three year for the quantity of twigs to recover.
As impressive as the quality of Roman pottery is its sheer massive quantity.
When considering quantities, we would ideally like to have some estimates for overall production from particular sites of pottery manufacture and for overall consumption at specific settlements.
Only rarely can we derive any "real" quantities from deposits of broken pots.
However, there is one exceptional dump, which does represent a very large part of the site's total history of consumption and for which an estimate of quantity has been produced.
On the left bank of the Tiber River in Rome, by one of the river ports of the ancient city, is a substantial hill some 50 meters high called Monte Testaccio.
This was a society with similarities to modern one  moving goods on a gigantic scale, manufacturing high-quality containers to do so, and occasionally, as here, even discarding them on delivery.
Roman pottery was transported not only in large quantities but also over substantial distances.
While previously the gap between the continents had allowed a free flow of water, now the isthmus presented a barrier that divided the Atlantic Ocean from the Pacific Ocean.
In the 1980s, John graves studied two populations of closely related fishes, one population from the Atlantic side of isthmus, the other from the Pacific side.
Graves found that all for Pacific enzymes function better at lower temperatures than the four Atlantic versions of the same enzymes.
This is significant because Pacific seawater is typically 2 to 3 degrees cooler than seawater on the Atlantic side of Isthmus.
First, at least some of the observed differences between the enzymes of the Atlantic and Pacific fish populations were not random but were the result of evolutionary adaptation.
Still, the results of the evaluation were promising, suggesting that the potential benefits of early intervention can be substantial. 
Many plants depend on wind for dispersal and produce abundant quantities of small, relatively short-lived seeds to compensate for the fact that wind is not always a reliable means of reaching the appropriate type of habitat.
The quantity and total weight of soil flora generally exceed that of soil fauna.
Earthworms ingest large quantities of soil, chemically alter it, and excrete it as organic matter called casts.
Searching for the Northwest Passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific in 1818, Sir John Ross had lowered his   deep-sea clam  --a sort of bivalved sediment scoop--into the water of Baffin Bay ( an inlet between the Atlantic and Arctic oceans), which the determined to be more than a thousand fathoms deep in some places.
Translocation clearly has a role in the recovery of species that have substantially declined and is the most likely method by which many sedentary species can recover all or part of their former range.
Farmers are attempting to slow the development of insect resistance in Bt crops by, for example, planting nontransgenic border rows to provide a refuge for susceptible insects.
Planting a glyphosate-resistant crop commits a farmer to using that herbicide for the reason, probably to the exclusion of all other herbicides and other weed-control practices.
Now extinct, moa were gigantic wingless birds that stood as much as 10 feet (3 meters) tall and weighed as much as 550 pounds (250 kilograms).
The density of Maori settlements and artifacts increased substantially at the time of the most intensive moa hunting (900 to 600 years ago).
In a tropical rain forest, for example, a very large quantity of plant material builds up above the surface of the ground.
The climates of the higher latitudes are generally less favorable for the accumulation of large quantities of biomass; hence, the structure of vegetation is simpler and the animal diversity is consequently lower.
For example, he argued that the introduction of domesticated vines and olives allowed a substantial expansion of land under cultivation and helped to power the emergence of complex society.
The likelihood of allopatric speciation increases when a population is small as well as isolated, making it more likely than a large population to have its gene pool changed substantially.
It should be emphasized that the evolution of lungs and limbs was in no sense an anticipation of future life on land.
For example, in areas of the cold North Atlantic, ice may form in winter.
But once this far, significant quantities can go a kilometer or more.
Beginning in the 1160s, the opening of new silver mines in northern Europe led to the minting and circulation of vast quantities of silver coins.
The Hanseatic League was a mercantile association of European towns dating from 1159.
However, in addition to corals there are enormous quantities of algae, some calcareous, which help to build the reefs.
The 2,000 kilometer complex of reefs known as the Great Barrier Reef, which forms a gigantic natural breakwater off the northeast coast of Australia, is by far the greatest coral structure on Earth.
At night, the solar energy (stored as vast quantities of heat in city buildings and roads) is slowly released into the city air.
The most crucial effect of climate was on the sheer quantity of land available in each period, measurable by studying ancient coastlines.
The world of antiquity had recorded its writings mainly on papyrus.
