Because architecture grows out of human needs and aspirations, it clearly communicates cultural values.
Of all the visual arts, architecture affects our lives most directly for it determines the character of the human environment in major ways.
To be architecture, a building must achieve a working harmony with a variety of elements.
It is the work of architects to create buildings that are not simply constructions but also offer inspiration and delight.
The client who pays for the building and defines its function is an important member of the architectural team.
The mediocre design of many contemporary buildings can be traced to both clients and architects.
In order for the structure to achieve the size and strength necessary to meet its purpose, architecture employs methods of support that, because they are based on physical laws, have changed little since people first discovered them  even while building materials have changed dramatically.
The world  s architectural structures have also been devised in relation to the objective limitations of materials.
Even development in architecture has been the result of major technological changes.
Materials and methods of construction are integral parts of the design of architecture structures.
Modern architectural forms generally have three separate components comparable to elements of the human body: a supporting skeleton or frame, an outer skin enclosing the interior spaces, and equipment, similar to the body  s vital organs and systems.
Of course in early architecture  such as igloos and adobe structures  there was no such equipment, and the skeleton and skin were often one.
Much of the world  s great architecture has been constructed of stone because of its beauty, permanence, and availability.
Some of the world  s finest stone architecture can be seen in the ruins of the ancient Inca city of Machu Picchu high in the eastern Andes Mountains of Peru.
A structural invention had to be made before the physical limitations of stone could be overcome and new architectural forms could be created.
The arch is among the many important structural breakthroughs that have characterized architecture throughout the centuries.
The ceramics fall into three broad types  earthenware, stoneware, and porcelain  for vessels, architectural items such as roof tiles, and modeled objects and figures.
The tradition of religious sculpture extends over most historical periods but is less clearly delineated than that of stonewares or porcelains, for it embraces the old custom of earthenware burial ceramics with later religious images and architectural ornament.
Other statues were designed to be placed within an architectural setting, for instance, in front of the monumental entrance gateways to temples known as pylons, or in pillared courts, where they would be placed against or between pillars: their frontality worked perfectly within the architectural context.
As densities increased, domestic architecture became larger, culminating in crowded pueblos.
The increased availability of paper, particularly after 1250, encouraged people to develop systems of representation, such as architectural plans and drawings.
On one hand were the buildings produced for the wealthy or for civic purposes, which tended to echo the architecture of the past and to use traditional styles of ornamentation.
Such buildings, however, were viewed in a category separate from   fine   architecture, and in fact were often designed by engineers and builders rather than architects.
The development of modern architecture might in large part be seen as an adaptation of this sort of functional building and its pervasive application for daily use.
Indeed, in this influential book Toward a New Architecture, the Swiss architect Le Corbusier illustrated his text with photographs of American factories and grain storage silos, as well as ships, airplanes, and other industrial objects.
Nonetheless, modern architects did not simply employ these new materials in a strictly practical fashion---they consciously exploited their aesthetic possibilities.
The fundamental premise of modern architecture was that the appearance of the building should exhibit the nature of its materials and forms of physical support.
This often led to effects that looked odd from a traditional standpoint but that became hallmarks of modern architecture for precisely this reason.
For example, in traditional architecture, stone or brick walls served a structural role, but in a steel-beam building the walls were essentially hung from the internal skeleton of steel beams, which meant that walls and corners no longer needed to be solid but could be opened up in unexpected ways.
At the Fagus shoe factory in Germany, for example, German architect Walter Gropius placed glass walls in the corners, effectively breaking open the box of traditional architecture and creating a new sense of light and openness.
These dramatic balconies quickly became a signature of modern architects such as Frank Lloyd Wright.
The ways in which new technology transformed architectural design are dramatically illustrated through the evolution of the high-rise office building.
Such buildings were so different from any previous form of architecture that they quickly acquired a new name  the skyscraper.
Biologists use the scanning electron microscope to study the detailed architecture of cell surfaces.
Structure is essentially the architecture of vegetation, and as in the case of some tropical forests, it can be extremely complicated.
Forests in temperate lands often have just two canopy layers, so they have much less complex architecture.
Cultural influences were of three types: the bringing of objects, the transfer of craft workers, and the introduction of massive civil architecture.
Administrators thus used their personal contacts to put the Britons in touch with architects and masons.
But the effect of Roman civil architecture was significant.
This was an architecture of dominance in which subject peoples were literally made to feel small by buildings that epitomized imperial power.
Among the most architecturally advanced of these termites is an African species, Macroternes natalensis.
