We need to know what aspects of a community are most important to the community  s resistance to destruction, as well as its recovery.
Hearing the stories may lead preschoolers to encode aspects of events that allow them to form memories they can access as adults.
Thus, all three explanations  physiological maturation, hearing and producing stories about past events, and improved encoding of key aspects of events  seem likely to be involved in overcoming infantile amnesia.
Support and encouragement were also required to help teachers in the program cope with aspects of their professional life with which they were not comfortable.
One of the most difficult aspects of deciding whether current climatic events reveal evidence of the impact of human activities is that it is hard to get a measure of what constitutes the natural variability of the climate.
Information on temperature, rainfall, and other aspects of the climate that can be inferred from the systematic changes in properties is usually referred to as proxy data.
From a practical aspect this protected the figures against breakage and psychologically gives the images a sense of strength and power, usually enhanced by a supporting back pillar.
The infant may be responding to aspects of the stimulus different than those identified by the investigator.
Nevertheless, one still speaks of the ecosystem when referring to a local association of animals and plants, usually without paying much attention to the energy aspects.
Many aspects of this energy use affect the atmosphere of a city, particularly in the production of heat. 
Now that we know much more about ancient exchange and commerce, we know that, because no one aspect of trade was an overriding cause of cultural change or evolution in commercial practices, trade can never be looked on as a unifying factor or as a primary agent of ancient civilization.
The recognition that many aspects of the modem flora and fauna were present on both sides of the Bering Sea as remnants of the ice-age landscape led to this region being named Beringia.
The individual traveling merchant who alone handled virtually all aspects of exchange evolved into an operation invoh/ing three separate types of merchants: the sedentary merchant who ran the "home office," financing and organizing the firm  s entire export-import trade; the carriers who transported goods by land and sea; and the company agents resident in cities abroad who, on the advice of the home office, looked after sales and procurements.
One remarkable aspect of this change was that the commercial classes constituted a small part of the total population  never more than 10 percent.
Determining what extinct dinosaurs ate is difficult, but we can infer some aspects of their dietary preferences.
