The periodic table is a chart that reflects the periodic recurrence of chemical and physical properties of the elements when the elements are arranged in order of increasing atomic number (the number of protons in the nucleus).
The next step was to recognize a connection between group properties (physical or chemical similarities) and atomic mass (the measured mass of an individual atom of an element).
When the elements known at the time were ordered by increasing atomic mass, it was found that successive elements belonged to different chemical groups and that the order of the groups in this sequence was fixed and repeated itself at regular intervals.
Mendeleyev was bolder than Meyer and even assumed that if a measured atomic mass put an element in the wrong place in the table, the atomic mass was wrong.
Indium, for example, had previously been assigned an atomic mass between those of arsenic and selenium.
Because there is no space in the periodic table between these two elements, Mendeleyev suggested that the atomic mass of indium be changed to a completely different value, where it would fill an empty space between cadmium and tin.
In fact, subsequent work has shown that in a periodic table, elements should not be ordered strictly by atomic mass.
For example, tellurium comes before iodine in the periodic table, even though its atomic mass is slightly greater.
All the isotopes of a given element have the same number of protons, but differ in their number of neutrons, and hence in their atomic mass.
We now know that atomic number (the number of protons in the nucleus), not atomic mass number (the number of protons and neutrons), determines chemical behavior.
Just five years later an element with the proper atomic mass was isolated and named gallium by its discoverer.
To compare the compositions of a meteorite and the Sun, it is necessary that we use ratios of elements rather than simply the abundances of atoms.
After all, the Sun has many more atoms of any element, say iron, than does a meteorite specimen, but the ratios of iron to silicon in the two kinds of matter might be comparable.
The period at the end of this sentence is about a million times bigger than an object 0.2 nanometers in diameter, which is the size of a large atom.
Only under special conditions can electron microscopes detect individual atoms.
However, cells, cellular organelles, and even molecules like DNA and protein are much larger than single atoms. 
He makes this argument based on the anatomy of horse and bison, which do not have the ability to search for food through deep snow cover.
In the near-surface layers, there are many large, fast carnivores as well as an immense variety of planktonic animals, which feed on plankton (small, free-floating plants or animals) by filtering them from currents of water that pass through a specialized anatomical structure These filter-feeders thrive in the well-illuminated surface waters because oceans have so many very small organisms, from bacteria to large algae to larval crustaceans.
