This region has a semiarid climate, and for 50 years after its settlement, it supported a low-intensity agricultural economy of cattle ranching and wheat farming.
In addition, 40 percent of American grain-fed beef cattle are fattened here.
For example, wild cattle (bovines) and horses are portrayed more often than we would expect by chance, probably because they were larger and heavier (meatier) than other animals in the environment.
Here, the horse was already becoming the animal of prestige in many regions, though sheep, goats, and cattle could also play a vital role.
The rabbits destroyed huge expanses of Australia and threatened the sheep and cattle industries.
For instance, several kinds of birds feed on insects flushed out of the grass by grazing cattle.
It is difficult to imagine how this could affect the cattle, but the relationship may help or hinder them in some way not yet recognized.
At the same time, both cattle and humans were more confined in their movements, staying much closer to permanent water supplies for long periods of time.
As a result, cattle and humans came into close association.
Instead of following the cattle on their annual migrations, the hunters began to prevent the herd from moving from one spot to another.
The same effects of inbreeding may have occurred in controlled cattle populations, with some additional, and perhaps unrecognized, advantages.
It is still unclear whether domesticated cattle were tamed independently in northern Africa or introduced to the continent from Southwest Asia.Whatever the source of the original tamed herds might have been, it seems entirely likely that much the same process of juxtaposition (living side by side) and control occurred in both Southwest Asia and northern Africa, and even in Europe, among peoples who had an intimate knowledge of the behavior of wild cattle.
The cattle herders had only a few possessions: unsophisticated pots and polished adzes.
Their artistic endeavors have been preserved in paintings of wild animals, cattle, goats, humans, and scenes of daily life that extend back perhaps to 5000 B.C.
On the other hand, rainfall increased in the interior of western Africa, and the northern limit of the tsetse fly, an insect fatal to cattle, moved south.
Provincial police began to appear, along with district officers and cattle registration and land deeds and registration for compulsory military service.
