Both oil and gas are less dense than water, so they generally tend to rise upward through water-saturated rock and sediment. 
Early in the eighteenth century, a pump had come into use in which expanding steam raised a piston in a cylinder, and atmospheric pressure brought it down again when the steam condensed inside the cylinder to form a vacuum.
In the 1760s, James Watt perfected a separate condenser for the steam, so that the cylinder did not have to be cooled at every stroke; then he devised a way to make the piston turn a wheel and thus convert reciprocating (back and forth) motion into rotary motion.
As evaporation continued, the remaining brine (salt water) became so dense that the calcium sulfate of the hard layer was precipitated.
From north to south in the Yucatan Peninsula, where the Maya lived, rainfall ranges from 18 to 100 inches (457 to 2,540 millimeters) per year, and the soils become thicker, so that the southern peninsula was agriculturally more productive and supported denser populations.
How did those dense southern Maya populations deal with the resulting water problem?
As the air space around them is lessened by compaction and melting, the grains become denser.
The terrestrial planets are mostly rocks: dense rocky and metallic material, with minor amounts of gases.
It is hypothesized that the primordial cloud of dust and gas from which all the planets are thought to have condensed had a composition somewhat similar to that of Jupiter.
In densely wooded environments, sound is the best means of communication over distance because in comparison with light, it travels with little impediment from trees and other vegetation.
Some local areas, like the Jordan River valley, the middle Euphrates valley, and some Zagros valleys, were more densely populated than elsewhere.
The same minerals that occur in refractory inclusions are believed to be the earliest-formed substances to have condensed out of the solar nebula.
Few of the cultural traditions and rules that today allow us to deal with dense populations existed for these people accustomed to household autonomy and the ability to move around the landscape almost at will.
There are two general classes of vegetation: long-lived perennials, which may be succulent (water-storing) and are often dwarfed and woody, and annuals or ephemerals, which have a short life cycle and may form a fairly dense stand immediately after rain.
They possess drought-resisting adaptations: loss of water through the leaves is reduced by means of dense hairs covering waxy leaf surfaces, by the closure of pores during the hottest times to reduce water loss, and by the rolling up or shedding of leaves at the beginning of the dry season.
Birds shelter in nests, rock overhangs, trees, and dense shrubs to avoid the hottest hours of the day, while mammals like the kangaroo rat burrow underground.
For example, the ostrich has plumage that is so constructed that the feathers are long but not too dense.
All are slowly moving because the plates float on a denser semiliquid mantle, the layer between the crust and Earth  s core.
Competition is usually the more severe the denser the population.
It is difficult to imagine it now, but Siam  s Central Plain in the late 1800s was nowhere near as densely settled as it is today.
Because eastern plows could not penetrate the densely tangled roots of prairie grass, the earliest settlers erected farms along the boundary separating the forest from the prairie.
After a series of observations, Watt saw that the Newcomen  s waste of energy could be reduced by adding a separate condenser.
They imagined the deep sea as being filled with an unmoving and undisturbable pool of cold, dense water.
One factor is the direct effect of logging, which often turns a forest into something approximating a huge pile of kindling (wood for burning): the ground in a logged forest may remain covered with branches and treetops, left behind when the valuable trunks are carted away; a dense growth of new vegetation springs up, further increasing the forest  s fuel loads; and the trees logged and removed are of course the biggest and most fire-resistant individuals, leaving behind smaller and more flammable trees.
When a fire finally does start in a sapling-choked forest, whether due to lightning or human carelessness or (regrettably often) intentional arson, the dense, tall saplings young trees) may become a ladder that allows the fire to jump into the crowns of the trees.
In an ideal world, the Forest Service would manage and restore the forests, thin them out, and remove the dense understory by cutting or by controlled small fires.
Since water vapor is a greenhouse gas, this humid atmosphere-perhaps denser than Earth  s present-day atmosphere, but far less dense than the atmosphere that envelops Venus today  would have efficiently trapped heat from the Sun.
Astronomers can tell that it lacks a dense core from the details of its gravitational pull on the Galileo spacecraft during several very close flybys.
The presence of mammal species that require grassland vegetation has led Arctic biologist Dale Guthrie to argue that while cold and dry, there must have been broad areas of dense vegetation to support herds of mammoth, horse, and bison.
These are at best a waste and at worst an impediment to the transfer of pollen in the air The result is insignificant-looking flowers and catkins (dense cylindrical clusters of small, petalless flowers).
The thick and dense wall of the mound insulates the interior microclimate from the variations in humidity and temperature of the outside atmosphere.
Water vapor condenses onto these particles when the relative humidity is as low as 70 percent, forming haze that greatly reduces visibility.
