Although named after a site in Australia, the Ediacara formation is worldwide in distribution and dates to Precambrian times.
It is known, however, that the distribution of groundwater is uneven, and that much of it lies at great depths.
Their major point was that the distribution of a given species was controlled by the habitat requirements of that species and that therefore the vegetation types were a simple consequence of the ecologies of individual plant species.
It is archaeologist Steven Mithen's thesis, brilliantly developed in his book The Prehistory of the Mind (1996), that approximately 40,000 years ago the human mind developed cognitive fluidity, that is, the integration of the specializations of the mind: technical, natural history (geared to understanding the behavior and distribution of natural resources), social intelligence, and the linguistic capacity.
Gradually, Venice's role as a storage and distribution center for spices and silk, dyes cotton, and gold decayed, and by the early seventeenth century Venice had lost its monopoly in markets such as France and southern Germany.
The distribution of plants within different areas of desert is also controlled by water.
The sparse distribution of the feathers, however, also allows considerable lateral air movement over the skin surface, thereby permitting further heat loss by convection.
The widespread distribution of pastoral sites of this period suggests that the Saharans ranged their herds over widely separated summer and winter grazing grounds. 
Hubbell and Johnson studied several species of stingless bees to determine whether there is a relationship between aggressiveness and patterns of colony distribution.
They predicted that the colonies of aggressive species would show regular distributions, while those of nonaggressive species would show random or closely grouped (clumped) distribution.
The number of colonies in the study area was not limited by availability of suitable trees, and a clumped or regular distribution of colonies was not due to an underlying clumped or regular distribution of potential nest sites.
Their observations provide insights into the mechanisms that establish and maintain the regular nest distribution of these species.
Forbes also thought he saw, as he later told the British Association, that   the number of species and individuals diminishes as we descend, pointing to a zero in the distribution of animal life as yet unvisited.
Raccoons have a vast transcontinental distribution, occurring throughout most of North America and Central America.
Several factors explain the raccoon's dramatic increase in abundance and distribution.
