The raising of livestock is a major economic activity in semiarid lands, where grasses are generally the dominant type of natural vegetation.
The archaeological evidence clearly indicates, though, that Teotihuac  n was the center that did arise as the predominant force in the area by the first century A.D.
Even though the paint was often sprayed on by mouth, one can assume that the dominant hand assisted in the operation.
Of 158 stencils in the French cave of Gargas, 136 have been identified as left, and only 22 as right; right-handedness was therefore heavily predominant.
Although the ecosystem concept was very popular in the 1950s and 1960s, it is no longer the dominant paradigm.
It is the dominant native species of the lower salt marshes along these coasts, where it grows in the intertidal zone (the area covered by water some parts of the day and exposed others).
But Uruk  s dominant size in the entire region, far surpassing that of other settlements, indicates that it was a regional center and a true city.
Third, older, more dominant bucks produce more buck rubs and probably deposit more glandular secretions on a given rub.
This would be an obvious advantage to wide-ranging deer, especially to a socially dominant buck when courting several adult females during the autumn rut.
They need to learn how to be dominant and submissive because each monkey might have to play either role in the future.
By means of their military prowess, dominant personalities, or political talents, these people gradually emerge as the leaders of that community.
Starting about 280 million years ago, reptiles were the dominant large animals in terrestrial environments.
This change in the dominant species from season to season is called seasonal succession, and it occurs in a wide variety of locations.
This may be one of the factors, but it is unlikely to be the sole cause because there are species that become dominant species at various temperatures.
Furthermore, temperature changes rather slowly in seawater, and the replacement of dominant species often is much more rapid.
But the effect of secretions by all the individuals of the dominant species can be significant both for themselves and for other species.
In fact, for mature soils in many parts of the world, the predominant type of natural vegetation is considered the most important direct influence on soil characteristics.
The gases that emanate from present-day volcanoes on Earth, such as Mount Saint Helens, are predominantly water vapor, carbon dioxide, and sulfur dioxide.
For the relatively few dominant tree species that make up temperate forests, where there are many individuals of the same species within pollen range, this is quite a safe gamble.
The nobility and churchmen determined the predominant social attitudes, values, and patterns of thought and behavior.
Supremacy was accentuated by the unyielding straight lines of both individual buildings and planned settlements since these too provided a marked contrast with the natural curvilinear shapes dominant in the native realm.
