Much of the water in a sample of water-saturated sediment or rock will drain from it if the sample is put in a suitable dry place.
It is held there by the force of surface tension without which water would drain instantly from any wet surface, leaving it totally dry.
The total volume of water in the saturated sample must therefore be thought of as consisting of water that can, and water that cannot, drain away. 
If the pores are large, the water in them will exist as drops too heavy for surface tension to hold, and it will drain away; but if the pores are small enough, the water in them will exist as thin films, too light to overcome the force of surface tension holding them in place; then the water will be firmly held. 
If no drainage system exists, the water table rises, bringing dissolved salts to the surface.
The arch was used by the early cultures of the Mediterranean area chiefly for underground drains, but it was the Romans who first developed and used the arch extensively in aboveground structures.
Instead, they are probably the paths taken by huge volumes of water draining from the southern highlands into the northern plains.
Endogenous rivers often do not reach the sea but drain into inland basins, where the water evaporates or is lost in the ground.
The increased yield and price of land justified reclaiming and draining even more land.
Noorderkwartier in Holland, with its numerous lakes and stretches of water, was particularly suitable for land reclamation and one of the biggest projects undertaken there was the draining of the Beemster lake which began in 1608.
Forty-three windmills powered the drainage pumps so that they were able to lease the reclamation to farmers as early as 1612, with the investors receiving annual leasing payments at an interest rate of 17 percent.
The engine helped solve the problem of draining coal mines of groundwater and increased the production of coal needed to power steam engines elsewhere.
The success of the steam engine resulted in increased demands for coal, and the consequent increase in coal production was made possible as the steam-powered pumps drained water from the ever-deeper coal seams found below the water table.
Water in the vadose zone drains down to the water table, leaving behind a thin coating of water on mineral grains.
If the water table intersects the land surface, groundwater will flow out onto the surface at springs, either to be collected there or to subsequently flow farther along a drainage.
Groundwater commonly collects in stream drainages but may remain entirely beneath the surface of dry stream-beds in arid regions.
Some savannas occur on wet, waterlogged soils; others on dry, sandy, well-drained soils.
Waterlogged soils occur in areas that are flat or have poor drainage.
By contrast, dry soils are sandy and porous, their coarse textures permitting water to drain rapidly.
It drained mines and made possible the production of ever more coal to feed steam engines elsewhere.
In addition, earthworms mix of soil both vertically and horizontally, improving aeration and drainage. 
As early as the seventeenth century the Dutch were helping them drain marshes and fens where, with the help of advanced techniques, they grew new crops.
