Offshore platforms may also lose oil, creating oil slicks that drift ashore and foul the beaches, harming the environment.
Plants with large, buoyant seeds  like coconuts  drift on ocean currents and are washed up on the shores.
Without the external cue, the difference accumulates and so the internally regulated activities of the biological day drift continuously, like the tides, in relation to the solar day.
This drift has been studied extensively in many animals and in biological activities ranging from the hatching of fruit fly eggs to wheel running by squirrels.
The heterogeneous material of the drift (sand, clay, and rocks deposited there) convinced him of its glacial origin.
It was also apparent that the glaciation occurred in the relatively recent past because the drift was soft, like freshly deposited sediment.
We now know the age of the glaciation accurately from radiometric dating of the carbon-14 in logs buried in the drift.
The drift of the last glaciation was deposited during one of the most recent epochs of geologic time, the Pleistocene, which lasted from 1.8 million to 10,000 years ago.
Along the east coast of the United States, the southernmost advance of this ice is recorded by the enormous sand and drift deposits of the terminal moraines that form Long Island and Cape Cod.
As geologists mapped glacial deposits in the late nineteenth century, they became aware that there were several layers of drift, the lower ones corresponding to earlier ice ages.
From this analysis of marine sediments, geologists have learned that there were many shorter, more regular cycles of glaciation and deglaciation than geologists had recognized from the glacial drift of the continents alone.
    Earth's internal heat, fueled by radioactivity, provides the energy for plate tectonics and continental drift, mountain building, and earthquakes.
Sun clocks worked, of course, only on clear days; water clocks misbehaved when the temperature fell toward freezing, to say nothing of long-run drift as the result of sedimentation and clogging.
