The semiarid lands bordering the deserts exist in a delicate ecological balance and are limited in their potential to adjust to increased environmental pressures.
Many zoologists believe that it was because so many ecological niches were available with virtually no competition from existing species.
To understand the ancient Mayan people who lived in the area that is today southern Mexico and Central America and the ecological difficulties they faced, one must first consider their environment, which we think of as "jungle" or "tropical rainforest."
So, basic ecological principles imply a strong tendency within pastoralist lifeways toward nomadism (a mobile lifestyle).
So, it is no accident that with the appearance of pastoralist societies there appear large areas that share similar cultural, ecological, and even linguistic features.
Biological hypotheses include ecological changes brought about by the evolution of cooperation between insects and flowering plants or of bottom-feeding predators in the oceans.
Finally, younger ecologists have found ecological problems involving behavior and life-history adaptations more attractive than measuring physical constants.
The physical structure of species competing for resources in the same ecological niche tends to gradually evolve in ways that allow them to occupy different niches.
Prairie farmers also introduced new crops that were not part of the earlier ecological system, notably wheat, along with fruits and vegetables.
In popular language this was the era   when dinosaurs ruled Earth,   when a wide variety of reptile species occupying many ecological niches.
This succession is different from typical terrestrial ecological succession in which various plants replace one another until finally a so-called climax community develops, which persists for many years.
The species of moa that are currently recognized occupied ecological niches customarily filled elsewhere by large mammalian browsing herbivores.
However, evidence of such diseases is difficult to determine directly from paleoecological or archaeological remains.
The story of moa species and their demise raises ecological issues on the vulnerability of species to human-caused changes- including altered vegetative cover of the landscape, change in the physical environment, and modification of the flora and fauna of a region by eliminating some species and introducing others.
What ecological pressures might have caused fishes to gradually abandon their watery habitat and become increasingly land-dwelling creatures?
Furthermore, a species-rich ecosystem is more likely to have species with similar ecological functions, so that if a species is lost from an ecosystem, another species, probably a competitor, is likely to flourish and occupy its functional role.
