These forces were the rapidly expanding electronics and telecommunications companies that were developing and linking telephone and wireless technologies in the 1920s.
Then a strong current of electrons follows that path from the cloud to the ground, and it is that current that illuminates the channel as the lightning we see.
The formation of the channel is initiated when electrons surge from the cloud base toward the ground.
When a stream of these negatively charged electrons comes within 100 meters of the ground it is met by a stream of positively charged particles that comes up from the ground.
The channel is only a few centimeters in diameter, but that is wide enough for electrons to follow the channel to the ground in the visible form of a flash of lightning.
The stream of positive particles that meets the surge of electrons from the cloud often arises from a tall pointed structure such as a metal flagpole or a tower.
Once a channel has been formed, it is usually used by several lightning discharges, each of them consisting of a stream of electrons from the cloud meeting a stream of positive particles along the established path.
Sometimes, however, a stream of electrons following an established channel is met by a positive stream making a new path up from the ground.
Our knowledge of cell structure took a giant leap forward as biologists began using the electron microscope in the 1950s.
Instead of light, the electron microscope uses a beam of electrons and has a much higher resolving power than the light microscope.
In fact, the most powerful modern electron microscopes can distinguish objects as small as 0.2 nanometers, a thousandfold improvement over the light microscope.
Only under special conditions can electron microscopes detect individual atoms.
Biologists use the scanning electron microscope to study the detailed architecture of cell surfaces.
It uses an electron beam to scan the surface of a cell or group of cells that have been coated with metal.
When the metal is hit by the beam, it emits electrons.
The electrons are focused to form an image of the outside of the cells.
The scanning electron microscope produces images that look three-dimensional. 
The transmission electron microscope, on the other hands, is used to study the details of internal cell structure.
Specimens are cut into extremely thin sections, and the transmission electron microscope aims an electron beam through a section, just as a light microscope aims a beam of light through a specimen.
However, instead of lenses made of glass, the transmission electron microscope uses electromagnets as lenses, as do all electron microscopes.
The electromagnets bend the electron beam to magnify and focus an image onto a viewing screen or photographic film.
One problem with electron microscopes is that they cannot be used to study living specimens because the specimen must be held in a vacuum chamber; that is, all the air and liquid must be removed.
For a biologist studying a living process, such as the whirling movement of a bacterium, a light microscope equipped with a video camera might be better than either a scanning electron microscope or a transmission electron microscope.
