Another condition that contributes to the development of autonomous theater is the emergence of the aesthetic sense.
The emergence and spread of pastoralism had a profound impact on the history of Inner Eurasia, and also, indirectly, on the parts of Asia and Europe just outside this area.
Climatic changes at the end of the glacial period 13,000 years ago have been proposed to account for the emergence of farming.
Mithen proposes the existence of four mental elements to account for the emergence of farming: (1) the ability to develop tools that could be used intensively to harvest and process plant resources; (2) the tendency to use plants and animals as the medium to acquire social prestige and power; (3) the tendency to develop "social relationships" with animals structurally similar to those developed with people  specifically, the ability to think of animals as people (anthropomorphism) and of people as animals (totemism); and (4) the tendency to manipulate plants and animals.
The realization that the physical self has continuity in time, according to this hypothesis, lays the foundation for the emergence of autobiographical memory.
It is difficult to isolate the factors that led to the next development  the emergence of urban settlements.
The need to oversee the entire process brought about the emergence of an elite that was eventually transformed into a government.
How the first governments took shape in these areas is not certain, but anthropologists studying the evolution of human communities in various parts of the world have discovered that one common stage in the process is the emergence of what are called   big men   within a single village or a collection of villages.
With the increase in population and the development of centralized authority came the emergence of the cities.
For example, he argued that the introduction of domesticated vines and olives allowed a substantial expansion of land under cultivation and helped to power the emergence of complex society.
Trade, nevertheless, was probably one of many variables that led to the emergence of palace economies in Minoan Crete.
It could be, too, that warfare became a competitive response to population growth and to the increasing scarcity of prime agricultural land, and that it played an important role in the emergence of the Mayan states.
Likewise skills in the use of mosaic, wall painting, ceramic decoration, and metal-working developed throughout the province with the eventual emergence of characteristically Romano-British styles.
