Why does the fossil record not document the series of evolutionary changes during the evolution of animals?
This 700-million-year-old formation gives few clues to the origins of modern animals, however, because paleontologists believe it represents an evolutionary experiment that failed.
The Cambrian explosion involved rapid evolutionary diversification, followed by the extinction of many unique animals.
Will zoologists ever know the evolutionary sequences in the Cambrian explosion?
The evolutionary history of plants has been marked by a series of adaptations.
All of these features appeared later in the evolutionary history of plants.
This supposition stems from the close phylogenetic (natural evolutionary) relationship between the two groups.
Today green algae live mainly in freshwater, suggesting that their early evolutionary history may have occurred in freshwater habitats.
From a plant's evolutionary view point, however, it was also a land of opportunity, free of competitors, and predator arid full of carbon dioxide and sunlight (the raw materials for photosynthesis, which are present in far higher concentrations in air than in water).
Protected embryos and waterless k dispersal of sex cells were achieved with the origin of seed plans and the key evolutionary innovations that they introduced: pollen, seeds, and later, flowers and fruits.
Competition among individuals of the same species (intraspecies competition), one of the major mechanisms of natural selection, is the concern of evolutionary biology.
Competition among species is of considerable evolutionary importance.
The evolutionary effect of competition on species has been referred to as "species selection;" however, this description is potentially misleading.
Darwin  s original thesis and the viewpoint supported by evolutionary gradualists, is that species change continuously but slowly and in small increments.
First, at least some of the observed differences between the enzymes of the Atlantic and Pacific fish populations were not random but were the result of evolutionary adaptation.
The extrafloral nectaries of some plants are known to attract ants and other insects, but the evolutionary history of most plants with these nectaries is unknown.
With its gene pool isolated, a separate population can follow its own evolutionary course.
One of the most significant evolutionary events that occurred on Earth was the transition of water-dwelling fish to terrestrial tetrapods (four-limbed organisms with backbones).
