Extinct but already fully marine cetaceans are known from the fossil record.
Missing until recently were fossils clearly intermediate, or transitional, between land mammals and cetaceans.
In 1979, a team looking for fossils in northern Pakistan found what proved to be the oldest fossil whale.
The fossil was officially named Pakicetus in honor of the country where the discovery was made.
The fossil consists of a complete skull of an archaeocyte, an extinct group of ancestors of modern cetaceans.
Although limited to a skull, the Pakicetus fossil provides precious details on the origins of cetaceans.
The fossil luckily includes a good portion of the hind legs.
Why does the fossil record not document the series of evolutionary changes during the evolution of animals?
Paleontologists continue to search the fossil record for answers to these questions.
One interpretation regarding the absence of fossils during this important 100-million-year period is that early animals were soft bodied and simply did not fossilize.
Fossilization of soft-bodied animals is less likely than fossilization of hard-bodied animals, but it does occur.
Conditions that promote fossilization of soft-bodied animals include very rapid covering by sediments that create an environment that discourages decomposition.
In fact, fossil beds containing soft-bodied animals have been known for many years. 
The Ediacara fossil formation, which contains the oldest known animal fossils, consists exclusively of soft-bodied forms.
A slightly younger fossil formation containing animal remains is the Tommotian formation, named after a locale in Russia.
At one time, the animals present in these fossil beds were assigned to various modern animal groups, but most paleontologists now agree that all Tommotian fossils represent unique body forms that arose in the early Cambrian period and disappeared before the end of the period, leaving no descendants in modern animal groups.
A third fossil formation containing both soft-bodied and hard-bodied animals provides evidence of the result of the Cambrian explosion.
This fossil formation, called the Burgess Shale, is in Yoho National Park in the Canadian Rocky Mountains of British Columbia.
Shortly after the Cambrian explosion, mud slides rapidly buried thousands of marine animals under conditions that favored fossilization.
These fossil beds provide evidence of about 32 modern animal groups, plus about 20 other animal body forms that are so different from any modern animals that they cannot be assigned to any one of the modern groups.
The Burgess Shale formation also has fossils of many extinct representatives of modern animal groups.
Perhaps another ancient fossil bed of soft-bodied animals from 600-million-year-old seas is awaiting discovery.
He received rudimentary village schooling, but mostly he roamed his uncle's farm collecting the fossils that were so abundant in the rocks of the Cotswold hills.
He later worked on similar jobs across the length and breadth of England, all the while studying the newly revealed strata and collecting all the fossils he could find.
As he collected fossils from strata throughout England, Smith began to see that the fossils told a different story from the rocks.
Particularly in the younger strata, the rocks were often so similar that he had trouble distinguishing the strata, but he never had trouble telling the fossils apart.
While rock between two consistent strata might in one place be shale and in another sandstone, the fossils in that shale or sandstone were always the same.
Some fossils endured through so many millions of years that they appear in many strata, but others occur only in a few strata, and a few species had their births and extinctions within one particular stratum.
Not only could Smith identify rock strata by the fossils they contained, he could also see a pattern emerging: certain fossils always appear in more ancient sediments, while others begin to be seen as the strata become more recent.
By following the fossils, Smith was able to put all the strata of England's earth into relative temporal sequence.
Sediment above and below the gypsum layer contained tiny marine fossils, indicating open-ocean conditions.
Many plants and animals disappear abruptly from the fossil record as one moves from layers of rock documenting the end of the Cretaceous up into rocks representing the beginning of the Cenozoic (the era after the Mesozoic).
Some deep aquifers are known as "fossil waters.
The term "fossil" describes water that has been present for several thousand years.
The fossil record shows at least five mass extinctions in which many families of marine organisms died out.
American paleontologists David Raup and John Sepkoski, who have studied extinction rates in a number of fossil groups, suggest that episodes of increased extinction have recurred periodically, approximately every 26 million years since the mid-Cretaceous period.
According to this theory, yawning in adults is just a developmental fossil with no biological function.
Between the older layers of glacial material were well-developed soils containing fossils of warm-climate plants.
This idea was modified in the late twentieth century, when geologists and oceanographers examining oceanic sediment found fossil evidence of warming and cooling of the oceans.
The fossils buried in Pleistocene and earlier ocean sediments were of foraminifera  small, single-celled marine organisms that secrete shells of calcium carbonate, or calcite.
When one considers the many ways by which organisms are completely destroyed after death, it is remarkable that fossils are as common as they are.
Although most fossils are found in marine sedimentary rocks, they also are found in terrestrial deposits left by streams and lakes.
The term "fossil" often implies petrifaction, literally a transformation into stone.
In such cases, the original composition of the bone or shell remains, but the fossil is made harder and more durable.
Another type of fossilization, known as carbonization, occurs when soft tissues are preserved as thin films of carbon.
Among the superbly preserved Messel fossils are insects with iridescent exoskeletons (hard outer coverings), frogs with skin and blood vessels intact, and even entire small mammals with preserved fur and soft tissue.
Such changes are all but invisible over the short time scale of modern observations, and, it is argued, they are usually obscured by innumerable gaps in the imperfect fossil record.
The punctuated equilibrium hypothesis attempts to explain a curious feature of the fossil record    one that has been familiar to paleontologists for more than a century but has usually been ignored.
Many species appear to remain unchanged in the fossil record for millions of years    a situation that seems to be at odds with Darwin  s model of continuous change.
Intermediate fossil forms, predicted by gradualism, are typically lacking.
But close examination of those fossil deposits now reveals a somewhat different story.
The four-toed Eohippus preceded the three-toed Miohippus, for example, but North American fossil evidence suggests a jerky, uneven transition between the two.
If evolution had been a continuous, gradual process, one might expect that almost every fossil specimen would be slightly different from every other. 
Detailed field studies of thick rock formations containing fossils provide the best potential tests of the competing theories.
Occasionally, a sequence of fossil-rich layers of rock permits a comprehensive look at one type of organism over a long period of time.
We find evidence of such extended events in the fossil record, which affords glimpses into the breakup of formerly continuous environments.
It was not until the Cambrian period, beginning about 600 million years ago, that a great proliferation of macroscopic species occurred on Earth and produced a fossil record that allows us to track the rise and fall of biodiversity.
These underestimated the actual age by factors of 10 to 50 because much of the sedimentary record is missing in various locations and because there is a long rock sequence that is older than half a billion years that is far less well defined in terms of fossils and less well preserved.
They are known from a diverse array of remains including eggshells, eggs, a few mummified carcasses, vast numbers of bones, and some older fossilized bone.
One of the groups whose fossils are especially common in rocks deposited in fresh water is the lobe-finned fish.
The delta rocks in which these fossils are found are commonly red due to oxidized iron minerals, indicating that the deltas formed in a climate that had alternate wet and dry periods.
Cross sections cut through some of the fossils reveal that the mud filling the interior of the carcass differed in consistency and texture depending on its location inside the fish.
This finer level of resolution requires direct fossil evidence of dinosaur meals.
In a few rare cases, most of them   mummies   (unusually well preserved specimens), fossilized plant remains have been found inside the body cavity of hadrosaurs.
In the chest cavity of this specimen, which is housed in the Senckenberg Museum in Germany, are the fossil remains of conifer needles, twigs, seeds, and fruits.
A second form of direct evidence comes from coprolites (fossilized bodily waste).
Several dinosaur fossil localities preserve coprolites.
