These Kinetoscope arcades were modeled on phonograph parlors, which had proven successful for Edison several years earlier.
In the phonograph parlors, customers listened to recordings through individual ear tubes, moving from one machine to the next to hear different recorded speeches or pieces of music.
What audiences came to see was the technological marvel of the movies; the lifelike reproduction of the commonplace motion of trains, of waves striking the shore, and of people walking in the street; and the magic made possible by trick photography and the manipulation of the camera.
With the advent of projection, the viewer's relationship with the image was no longer private, as it had been with earlier peepshow devices such as the Kinetoscope and the Mutoscope, which was a similar machine that reproduced motion by means of successive images on individual photographic cards instead of on strips of celluloid.
A recent Douglas biographer states:" The deer which once picturesquely dotted the meadows around the fort were gone [in 1832], hunted to extermination in order to protect the crops."
In 1970 geologists Kenneth J. Hsu and William B.F. Ryan were collecting research data while aboard the oceanographic research vessel Glomar Challenger.
Still, the process is uncertain, and peaceful migration  or simply rapid demographic growth  may have also caused the Bantu explosion. 
Among the main factors are Teotihuac  n  s geographic location on a natural trade route to the south and east of the Valley of Mexico, the obsidian resources in the Teotihuac  n Valley itself, and the valley  s potential for extensive irrigation.
Photographic evidence suggests that liquid water once existed in great quantity on the surface of Mars.
In the United States, they included such firms as American Telephone and Telegraph, General Electric, and Westinghouse.
This would change the geography of the planet considerably.
Using high-speed photography, scientists have determined that there are two steps to the occurrence of lightning from a cloud to the ground.
In the late nineteenth century, ecology began to grow into an independent science from its roots in natural history and plant geography.
This idea was modified in the late twentieth century, when geologists and oceanographers examining oceanic sediment found fossil evidence of warming and cooling of the oceans.
Many find that understanding the general nature of autobiographical memory, that is, memory for events that have occurred in one's own life, can provide some important clues to this mystery.
The realization that the physical self has continuity in time, according to this hypothesis, lays the foundation for the emergence of autobiographical memory.
Thus, the types of social experiences children have do factor into the development of autobiographical memories.
Perceptions of the visible world were greatly altered by the invention of photography in the middle of the nineteenth century.
The realistic and naturalistic painters of the mid- and late-nineteenth century were all intently aware of photography  as a thing to use, to learn from, and react to.
Unlike most major inventions, photography had been long and impatiently awaited.
The images produced by the camera obscura, a boxlike device that used a pinhole or lens to throw an image onto a ground-glass screen or a piece of white paper, were already familiar  the device had been much employed by topographical artists like the Italian painter Canaletto in his detailed views of the city of Venice.
Talbot's "calotype" was the first negative-to-positive process and the direct ancestor of the modern photograph.
One of the things that most impressed the original audience for photography was the idea of authenticity.
Artists were fascinated by photography because it offered a way of examining the world in much greater detail.
Photography did indeed make certain kinds of painting obsolete  the daguerreotype virtually did away with the portrait miniature.
In the long term, photography's impact on the visual arts was far from simple.
Even those artists who were most dependent on photography became reluctant to admit that they made use of it, in case this compromised their professional standing.
The rapid technical development of photography  the introduction of lighter and simpler equipment, and of new emulsions that coated photographic plates, film, and paper and enabled images to be made at much faster speeds  had some unanticipated consequences.
Scientific experiments made by photographers such as Eadweard Muybridge (1830-1904) and Etienne-Jules Marey (1830-1904) demonstrated that the movements of both humans and animals differed widely from the way they had been traditionally represented in art.
The new candid photography  unposed pictures that were made when the subjects were unaware that their pictures were being taken  confirmed these scientific results, and at the same time, thanks to the radical cropping (trimming) of images that the camera often imposed, suggested new compositional formats.
The accidental effects obtained by candid photographers were soon being copied by artists such as the French painter Degas.
Simple geometric repeated patterns  circles, concentric circles, and lines  constitute the iconography (characteristic images) of the earliest rock-art sites found across Australia.
Some areas, because of their soil texture, topographical position, or distance from rivers or groundwater, have virtually no water available to plants, whereas others do.
They therefore permit the reconstruction of the process of seafloor spreading, and consequently of the geography of continents and of ocean basins in the past.
However, because the ocean basins really are short-lived features on geologic times scales, reconstructing the world  s geography by backtracking along the hot-spot trail works only for the last 5 percent or so of geologic time.
In some cases, the water table reaches Earth's surface, where it is expressed as rivers, lakes, and marshes.Typically, though, the water table may be tens or hundreds of meters below the surface.The water table is not flat but usually follows the contours of the topography.
Because the surface of the water table is not flat but instead rises and falls with topography, groundwater is affected by gravity in the same fashion as surface water.
Groundwater flows downhill to topographic lows.
However, it is impossible to do justice to Roman wares on the page, even when words can be backed up by photographs and drawings.
What is more significant than any geographical spread is the access that different levels of society had to good-quality products.
The effects of such competition are graphically demonstrated when all the animals or all the plants in an ecosystem come into competition, as happened 2 million years ago at the end of the Pliocene, when North and South America became joined by the Isthmus of Panama.
Geographic isolation also can proceed slowly, over great spans of time.
Because Graves  s study of geographically isolated populations of Isthmus fishes offers a glimpse of the beginning of a process of gradual accumulation of mutations that are neutral or adaptive, divergences here might be evidence of allopatric speciation in process. 
The arts of the Islamic book, such as calligraphy and decorative drawing, developed during A.D. 900 to 1500, and luxury books are some of the most characteristic examples of Islamic art produced in this period.
Books became major vehicles for artistic expression, and the artists who produced them, notably calligraphers and painters, enjoyed high status, and their workshops were often sponsored by princes and their courts.
Some of the most luxurious books were specific commissions made at the order of a particular prince and sighed by the calligrapher and decorator. 
These large sheets meant that calligraphers and artists had more space on which to work.
Eventually, six round forms of handwriting, composed of three pairs of big and little scripts known collectively as the Six Pens, became the standard repertory of every calligrapher. 
After Hutton, geologists tried to determine rates of sedimentation so as to estimate the age of Earth from the total length of the sedimentary, or stratigraphic, record.
This zero, Forbes casually speculated--he simply extended a line on his graph of animal number versus depth--probably began at a depth of 1,800 feet.
In a fragmented landscape where many populations and habitats are isolated from others, translocations can play an effective role in conservation strategies; they can increase the number of existing populations or increase the size, genetic diversity, and demographic balance of a small population, consequently increasing its chances of survival. 
Indeed, in this influential book Toward a New Architecture, the Swiss architect Le Corbusier illustrated his text with photographs of American factories and grain storage silos, as well as ships, airplanes, and other industrial objects.
Glass lenses in the microscope bend the light to magnify the image of the specimen and project the image into the viewer  s eye or onto photographic film.
The electromagnets bend the electron beam to magnify and focus an image onto a viewing screen or photographic film.
Egypt gave us the tradition of the scribe not just as educated person but as artist and calligrapher.
The tropics contain a larger surface area of land than higher latitudes  a fact that is not always evident when we examine commonly used projections of Earth's curved surface, since this tends to exaggerate the areas of land in the higher latitudes-and some biogeographers regard the differences in diversity as a reflection of this effect But an analysis of the data by biologist Klaus Rohde does not support this explanation.
In the formation of many species, the initial isolation of a population seems to have been a geographic barrier.
Many factors can isolate a population geographically.
How formidable must a geographic barrier be to keep populations apart?
Geographic isolation creates opportunities for new species to develop, but it does not necessarily lead to new species because speciation occurs only when the gene pool undergoes enough changes to establish reproductive barriers between the isolated population and its parent population.
In recent times the British artist David Hockney has published his investigations into the secret use of the camera obscura, claiming that for up to 400 years, many of Western art  s great masters probably used the device to produce almost photographically realistic details in their paintings.
Analysis of the shells themselves has confirmed the changes in marine topography, for it is only during the maximum phase that subtropical species of mollusc are present, indicating a higher water temperature.
One was its geographic location at the crossroads of international trade.
