Many are found in tropical and subtropical areas of the world, where accumulation of high concentrations of metals may afford some protection against plant-eating insects and microbial pathogens.
For example, a well-known Burgess Shale animal called Sidneyia is a representative of a previously unknown group of arthropods (a category of animals that includes insects, spiders, mites, and crabs).
Biological hypotheses include ecological changes brought about by the evolution of cooperation between insects and flowering plants or of bottom-feeding predators in the oceans.
For instance, several kinds of birds feed on insects flushed out of the grass by grazing cattle.
In the second case, pollinators (insects, birds) obtain food from the flowering plant, and the plant has its pollen distributed and seeds dispersed much more efficiently than they would be if they were carried by the wind only.
They sting other insects and large herbivores (animals that eat only plants) and even clip surrounding vegetation that grows near the tree.
Among the superbly preserved Messel fossils are insects with iridescent exoskeletons (hard outer coverings), frogs with skin and blood vessels intact, and even entire small mammals with preserved fur and soft tissue.
As the seaweed and marsh grass leaves die, bacteria break down the plant material, and insects, small shrimplike organisms, fiddler crabs, and marsh snails eat the decaying plant tissue, digest it, and excrete wastes high in nutrients.
Numerous insects occupy the marsh, feeding on living or dead cordgrass tissue, and redwing blackbirds, sparrows, rodents, rabbits, and deer feed directly on the cordgrass.
Leaving its insect predators behind, the cordgrass has been spreading slowly and steadily along Washington  s tidal estuaries on the west coast, crowding out the native plants and drastically altering the landscape by trapping sediment.
Work has begun to determine the feasibility of using insects as biological controls, but effective biological controls are considered years away.
On the other hand, rainfall increased in the interior of western Africa, and the northern limit of the tsetse fly, an insect fatal to cattle, moved south.
The change separated populations of insects now living along opposite shore, completely cutting off gene flow between them.
The extrafloral nectaries of some plants are known to attract ants and other insects, but the evolutionary history of most plants with these nectaries is unknown.
Nevertheless, most ecologists believe that all extrafloral nectaries attract insects that will defend the plant. 
To return this favor, ants guard the nectaries, driving away or killing intruding insects that might compete with ants for nectar.
He called for proof of the protectionist view: that visitations of the ants confer protection on the plants and that in the absence of the protectionist view: that visitations of the ants confer protection on the plants and that in the absence of the insects a much greater number would perish or fail to produce flowers or seeds than when the insects are present.
One example shows how ants attracted to extrafloral nectaries protect morning glories against attacking insects.
The principal insect enemies of the North American morning glory feed mainly on its flowers or fruits rather than its leaves.
Extrafloral nectaries at the base of each sepal attract several kinds of insects, but 96 percent of them are ants, several different species of them.
Most often, these plants either contain a gene making them resistant to the herbicide glyphosate or they contain an insect-resistant gene that produces a protein called Bt toxin.
For example, a 21 percent reduction in the use of insecticide has been reported on Bt cotton (transgenic cotton that produces Bt toxin).
One question deals with the effects that Bt plants have on nontarget organisms such as beneficial insects, worms, and birds that consume the genetically engineered crop.
Furthermore, the application of pesticides (the alternative to growing Bt plants) has been demonstrated to cause widespread harm to nontarget insects.
Of special concern is the development of insect populations resistant to the Bt toxin.
This pesticide has been applied to plants for decades without the development of insect-resistant populations.
Therefore, all insects carrying genes that make them susceptible to the toxin will die.
That leaves only the genetically resistant insects alive to perpetuate the population.
When these resistant insects mate, they will produce a high proportion of offspring capable of surviving in the presence of the Bt toxin.
Farmers are attempting to slow the development of insect resistance in Bt crops by, for example, planting nontransgenic border rows to provide a refuge for susceptible insects.
These insects may allow Bt susceptibility to remain in the population.
Farmers who use Bt transgenics may not feel that they need to follow through with integrated pest-management practices that use beneficial insects and timely applications of pesticides to control insect pests.
Pollen, a powdery substance, which is produced by flowering plants and contains male reproductive cells, is usually carried from plant to plant by insects or birds, but some plants rely on the wind to carry their pollen.
In a similar way, trees in temperate forests that are insect pollinated tend to grow as solitary, widely spread individuals.
Since wind-pollinated flowers have no need to attract insects or other animals, they have dispensed with bright petals, nectar, and scent.
Windbome pollen is dry, rounded, smooth, and generally smaller than that of insect-pollinated plants.
Termites, social insects which live in colonies that, in some species, contain 2 million individuals or more, are often incorrectly referred to as white ants.
