Four specific activities have been identified as major contributors to the desertification processes: overcultivation, overgrazing, firewood gathering, and overirrigation.
The final major human cause of desertification is soil salinization resulting from overirrigation.
Excess water from irrigation sinks down into the water table.
The ensuing rapid expansion of irrigation agriculture, especially from the 1950s onward, transformed the economy of the region.
Modern irrigation devices, each capable of spraying 4.5 million liters of water a day, have produced a landscape dominated by geometric patterns of circular green islands of crops.
Whatever the final answer to the water crisis may be, it is evident that within the High Plains, irrigation water will never again be the abundant, inexpensive resource it was during the agricultural boom years of the mid-twentieth century.
This scenario begins with the planting of hyperaccumulating species in the target area, such as an abandoned mine or an irrigation pond contaminated by runoff.
Among the main factors are Teotihuac  n  s geographic location on a natural trade route to the south and east of the Valley of Mexico, the obsidian resources in the Teotihuac  n Valley itself, and the valley  s potential for extensive irrigation.
The picture of Teotihuac  n that emerges is a classic picture of positive feedback among obsidian mining and working, trade, population growth, irrigation, and religious tourism.
More irrigation works would have to be built to feed the growing population, and this resulted in more power and wealth for the elite.
This is useful for irrigation, but the high temperatures, low humidities, and different day lengths of the dry season, compared to the normal growing season, can present difficulties with some crops.
To start with, it forced the population to abandon the nomad's life and become sedentary, to develop methods of storage and, often, systems of irrigation.
It was this that made the organization of irrigation, particularly the building of canals to channel and preserve the water, essential.
No one knows exactly when the waterwheel was invented, but irrigation systems existed at least 5,000 years ago, and it seems probable that the earliest waterpower device was the noria, a waterwheel that raised water for irrigation in attached jars.
The increase in food production in these regions led to a significant growth in population, while efforts to control the flow of water to maximize the irrigation of cultivated areas and to protect the local inhabitants from hostile forces outside the community provoked the first steps toward cooperative activities on a large scale.
Productivity in agriculture was also improved by capital investments, first of all in irrigation.
