Furthermore, even the most reliable waterpower varied with the seasons and disappeared in a drought.
But as more and more accumulations of strata were cataloged in more and more places, it became clear that the sequences of rocks sometimes differed from region to region and that no rock type was ever going to become a reliable time marker throughout the world.
However, other reliable evidence suggests that the deposition of the boundary clay could not have taken one million years.
Instrumental records do not go back far enough to provide us with reliable measurements of global climatic variability on timescales longer than a century.
First, the observation may be unreliable in that two or more observers may not agree that the particular response occurred, or to what degree it occurred.
At the city of Coba the Maya built dikes around a lake in order to raise its level and make their water supply more reliable.
Currently, reliable scientific evidence dates the earliest creation of art on rock surfaces in Australia to somewhere between 30,000 and 50,000 years ago.
While population estimates are notoriously unreliable, scholars assume that Uruk inhabitants were able to support themselves from the agricultural production of the field surrounding the city, which could be reached with a daily commute.
Both humans and animals were constantly on the move, in search of food and reliable water supplies.
Unfortunately this early plant experienced the problem common to many forms of renewable energy: the flow in the Wey River was unreliable, and the waterwheel was soon replaced by a steam engine.
Medieval Europe gave new importance to reliable time.
Many plants depend on wind for dispersal and produce abundant quantities of small, relatively short-lived seeds to compensate for the fact that wind is not always a reliable means of reaching the appropriate type of habitat.
The advantage was that crops grown in such areas were not as dependent on rainfall and therefore produced a more reliable harvest.
Confronted with a multitude of unreliable figures, economists have compared the population records with the aggregate data for cultivated land area and grain production in the six centuries since 1368.
