Some plants can even survive in favorable microhabitats above the snow line.
Some soils are notoriously deficient in micro nutrients and are therefore unable to support most plant life.
Many are found in tropical and subtropical areas of the world, where accumulation of high concentrations of metals may afford some protection against plant-eating insects and microbial pathogens.
Even today, microscopic meteorites continually bombard Earth, falling on both land and sea.
Other microscopic plants also are important in soil development.
The mean concentration of sulphur dioxide pollution fell from about 300 micrograms per cubic meter in 1970 to less than 50 micrograms per cubic meter in 1975 and has remained fairly constant since then If the spread of the light-colored form of the moth continues at the same speed as the melanic form spread in the last century, soon the melanic form will again be only an occasional resident of the Liverpool area.
Before microscopes were first used in the seventeenth century, no one knew that living organisms were composed of cells.
The first microscopes were light microscopes, which work by passing visible light through a specimen.
Glass lenses in the microscope bend the light to magnify the image of the specimen and project the image into the viewer  s eye or onto photographic film.
Light microscopes can magnify objects up to 1,000 times without causing blurriness. 
Magnification, the increase in the apparent size of an object, is one important factor in microscopy.
The light microscope cannot resolve detail finer than 0.2 micrometers, about the size of the smallest bacterium; consequently, no matter how many times its image of such a bacterium is magnified, the light microscope cannot show the details of the cell  s internal structure.
From the year 1665, when English microscopist Robert Hooke discovered cells, until the middle of the twentieth century, biologists had only light microscopes for viewing cells.
But they discovered a great deal, including the cells composing animal and plant tissues, microscopic organisms, and some of the structures within cells.
Our knowledge of cell structure took a giant leap forward as biologists began using the electron microscope in the 1950s.
Instead of light, the electron microscope uses a beam of electrons and has a much higher resolving power than the light microscope.
In fact, the most powerful modern electron microscopes can distinguish objects as small as 0.2 nanometers, a thousandfold improvement over the light microscope.
Only under special conditions can electron microscopes detect individual atoms.
Biologists use the scanning electron microscope to study the detailed architecture of cell surfaces.
The scanning electron microscope produces images that look three-dimensional. 
The transmission electron microscope, on the other hands, is used to study the details of internal cell structure.
Specimens are cut into extremely thin sections, and the transmission electron microscope aims an electron beam through a section, just as a light microscope aims a beam of light through a specimen.
However, instead of lenses made of glass, the transmission electron microscope uses electromagnets as lenses, as do all electron microscopes.
Electron microscopes have truly revolutionized the study of cells and cell organelles.
Nonetheless, they have not replaced the light microscope.
One problem with electron microscopes is that they cannot be used to study living specimens because the specimen must be held in a vacuum chamber; that is, all the air and liquid must be removed.
For a biologist studying a living process, such as the whirling movement of a bacterium, a light microscope equipped with a video camera might be better than either a scanning electron microscope or a transmission electron microscope.
Thus, the light microscope remains a useful tool, especially for studying living cells.
The size of a cell often determines the type of microscope a biologist uses to study it. 
It even affects the climate on a very local level (the "microclimate') by influencing light intensity, humidity, and both the range and extremes of temperature.
An area of grassland vegetation with very simple structure, for example, has a very differed microclimate at the ground level from that experienced in the upper canopy.
The complexity of the microclimate is closely related to the complexity of structure in vegetation, and generally speaking, the more complex the structure of vegetation, the more speeds of animal are able to make a living there.
In the ocean, microscopic phytoplankton (tiny floating plants) and bacteria (simple, single-celled organisms) are the principal sources of organic matter that is trapped and buried in sediment Most of the organic matter is buried in clay that is slowly converted to a fine-grained sedimentary rock known as shale.
The high rate of metabolism (the processing of energy for survival) of the microorganisms in the sediments causes sediments to be anaerobic (without oxygen) below the first few millimeters.
According to ecologist J. W. Kenworthy, anaerobic processes of the microorganisms in the sediment are an important mechanism for regenerating and recycling nutrients and carbon, ensuring the high rates of productivity  that is, the amount of organic material produced-that are measured in those beds.
Particulate organic matter of at least 2.5 micrograms per cubic liter is required to provide a filter-feeding planktonic organism with a net energy gain This value is easily exceeded in most coastal waters, but in the deep sea, the levels of organic matter range from next to nothing to around 7 micrograms per cubic liter.
The thick and dense wall of the mound insulates the interior microclimate from the variations in humidity and temperature of the outside atmosphere.
