Later Heyerdahl suggested that the Pacific was peopled by three migrations: by Native Americans from the Pacific Northwest of North America drifting to Hawaii, by Peruvians drifting to Easter Island, and by Melanesians.
Why did the near extinction and migrations occur?
Their migration may have been set in motion by an increase in population caused by a movement of peoples fleeing the desiccation, or drying up, of the Sahara.
Still, the process is uncertain, and peaceful migration  or simply rapid demographic growth  may have also caused the Bantu explosion. 
It has long been accepted that the Americas were colonized by a migration of peoples from Asia, slowly traveling across a land bridge called Beringia (now the Bering Strait between northeastern Asia and Alaska) during the last Ice Age.
The first water craft theory about this migration was that around 11,000-12,000 years ago there was an ice-free corridor stretching from eastern Beringia to the areas of North America south of the great northern glaciers.
It was this midcontinental corridor between two massive ice sheets Cthe Laurentide to the east and the Cordilleran to the west Cthat enabled the southward migration.
Until the early 1970s,most archaeologists did not consider the coast a possible migration route into the Americas because geologists originally believed that during the last Ice Age the entire Northwest Coast was covered by glacial ice.
The most influential proponent of the coastal migration route has been Canadian archaeologist Knut Fladmark.
Early in his research, Kramer found that caged migratory birds became very restless at about the time they would normally have begun migration in the wild.
When the planetarium sky matched the sky outside, the birds fluttered in the direction of their normal migration.
During periods when commodity prices were high, the rate of westward migration increased spectacularly.
"Old America seemed to be breaking up and moving westward," observed an English visitor in 1817, during the first great wave of migration.
Emigration to the West reached a peak in the 1830's.
Certain characteristics of American society help to explain this remarkable migration.
They subsisted offspring migrations of Persian gazelles from the south.
Seasonal migration is another form of escape, especially for large mammals or birds.
Instead of following the cattle on their annual migrations, the hunters began to prevent the herd from moving from one spot to another.
Petroleum migration is analogous to groundwater migration.
This increase of food supply was due perhaps half to the increase of cultivated area, particularly by migration and settlement in the central and western provinces, and half to greater productivity  the farmers   success in raising more crops per unit of land.
