But the myths that have grown up around the rites may continue as part of the group  s oral tradition and may even come to be acted out under conditions divorced from these rites.
For example, some early societies ceased to consider certain rites essential to their well-being and abandoned them, nevertheless, they retained as parts of their oral tradition the myths that had grown up around the rites and admired them for their artistic qualities rather than for their religious usefulness. 
By following the fossils, Smith was able to put all the strata of England's earth into relative temporal sequence.
It was actually a principle of floral succession as well, because plants showed the same transformation through time as did fauna.
The Romans adopted Greek religion and moral philosophy.
Pastoralism is a lifestyle in which economic activity is based primarily on livestock.
Archaeological evidence suggests that by 3000 B.C., and perhaps even earlier, there had emerged on the steppes of Inner Eurasia the distinctive types of pastoralism that were to dominate the region's history for several millennia.
It is the use of horses for transportation and warfare that explains why Inner Eurasian pastoralism proved the most mobile and the most militaristic of all major forms of pastoralism.
The emergence and spread of pastoralism had a profound impact on the history of Inner Eurasia, and also, indirectly, on the parts of Asia and Europe just outside this area.
In particular, pastoralism favors a mobile lifestyle, and this mobility helps to explain the impact of pastoralist societies on this part of the world.
The mobility of pastoralist societies reflects their dependence on animal-based foods.
While agriculturalists rely on domesticated plants, pastoralists rely on domesticated animals.
As a result, pastoralists, like carnivores in general, occupy a higher position on the food chain.
So pastoralism is a more extensive lifeway than farming is.
So, basic ecological principles imply a strong tendency within pastoralist lifeways toward nomadism (a mobile lifestyle).
As the archaeologist Roger Cribb puts it,   The greater the degree of pastoralism, the stronger the tendency toward nomadism.
It means that pastoralist societies occupy and can influence very large territories.
This is particularly true of the horse pastoralism that emerged in the Inner Eurasian steppes, for this was the most mobile of all major forms of pastoralism.
So, it is no accident that with the appearance of pastoralist societies there appear large areas that share similar cultural, ecological, and even linguistic features.
Perhaps the most striking sign of mobility is the fact that by the third millennium B.C., most pastoralists in this huge region spoke related languages ancestral to the modern Indo-European languages.
The remarkable mobility and range of pastoral societies explain, in part, why so many linguists have argued that the Indo-European languages began their astonishing expansionist career not among farmers in Anatolia (present-day Turkey), but among early pastoralists from Inner Eurasia.
Nomadism also subjects pastoralist communities to strict rules of portability.
Such rules limit variations in accumulated material goods between pastoralist households (though they may also encourage a taste for portable goods of high value such as silks or jewelry).
Inequalities of wealth and rank certainly exist, and have probably existed in most pastoralist societies, but except in periods of military conquest, they are normally too slight to generate the stable, hereditary hierarchies that are usually implied by the use of the term class.
Inequalities of gender have also existed in pastoralist societies, but they seem to have been softened by the absence of steep hierarchies of wealth in most communities, and also by the requirement that women acquire most of the skills of men, including, often, their military skills.
The mercantile economy was also characterized by a peculiar moral stance that is typical of people who live by trade  an attitude that is individualistic, calculating, risk taking, and adaptive to circumstances.
Nor have merchants and artisans ever had much tolerance for aristocratic professions of moral superiority, favoring instead an egalitarian ethic of the open market, where steady hard work, the loyalty of one's fellows, and entrepreneurial skill make all the difference.
And, like the pastoralists, Middle Eastern merchants and artisans unhappy with their environment could simply pack up and leave for greener pastures  an act of self-assertion wholly impossible in most other civilizations throughout history.
The data showed that yawning tended to occur about 15 minutes before a period of increased behavioral activity.
The fact that some societies domesticated animals and plants, discovered the use of metal tools, became literate, and developed a state should not make us forget that others developed pastoralism or horticulture (vegetable gardening) but remained illiterate and at low levels of productivity; a few entered the modern period as hunting and gathering societies.
The second system is the voluntary, behavioral system.
Animals also have to adapt to desert conditions, and they may do it through two forms of behavioral adaptation: they either escape or retreat.
Some animals have behavioral, physiological, and morphological (structural) adaptations that enable them to withstand extreme conditions.
A glance at a map of the Pacific Ocean reveals that there are many islands far out at sea that are actually volcanoes  many no longer active, some overgrown with coral  that originated from activity at points in the interior of the Pacific Plate that forms the Pacific seafloor.
The widespread distribution of pastoral sites of this period suggests that the Saharans ranged their herds over widely separated summer and winter grazing grounds. 
In most localities a given species of clam or coral persists essentially unchanged throughout a thick formation of rock, only to be replaced suddenly by a new and different species.
Its public display and private possession laid the basis for temporal autonomy: people could now coordinate comings and goings without dictation from above.
Species succession in plant communities, i.e., the temporal sequence of appearance and disappearance of species is dependent on events occurring at different stages in the life history of a species.
The first farmers, who may have lived as long as 10,000 years ago, undoubtedly used simple techniques and still relied primarily on other forms of food production, such as hunting, foraging, or pastoralism.
Many plants  one or more species of at least 68 different families  can secrete nectar even when they have no blossoms, because they bear extrafloral nectaries (structures that produce nectar) on stems, leaves, leaf stems, or other structures.
Like floral nectar, extrafloral nectar consists mainly of water with a high content of dissolved sugars and, in some plants, small amounts of amino acids.
The extrafloral nectaries of some plants are known to attract ants and other insects, but the evolutionary history of most plants with these nectaries is unknown.
Nevertheless, most ecologists believe that all extrafloral nectaries attract insects that will defend the plant. 
Since the highly active worker ants require a great deal of energy, plants exploit this need by providing extrafloral nectar that supplies ants with abundant energy.
Biologists once thought that secretion of extrafloral nectar has some purely internal physiological function, and that ants provide no benefit whatsoever to the plants that secrete it.
One example shows how ants attracted to extrafloral nectaries protect morning glories against attacking insects.
Extrafloral nectaries at the base of each sepal attract several kinds of insects, but 96 percent of them are ants, several different species of them.
Although the troops appeared to undergo initial problems, causing them to split up, all the tracked females settled into normal behavioral patterns. 
The principal elements in behavioral thermoregulation are basking (heliothermy), heat exchange with substrates such as rock or earth (thigmothermy)  and diurnal and annual avoidance behaviors, which include moving to shelter during the day for cooling and hibernating or estivating (reducing activity during cold or hot weather, respectively).
was the first person in Greece to propose a morality based on individual conscience rather than the demands of the state, and for this he was accused of not believing in the city  s gods and so corrupting the youth, and he was condemned to death.
The principal changes for the earliest tetrapods were in the skeletal system  changes in the bones of the fins, the vertebral column, pelvic girdle, and pectoral girdle.
An important environment that is more or less totally restricted to the intertropical zone is the coral reef.
Coral reefs are found where the ocean water temperature is not less than 21   C, where there is a firm substratum, and where the seawater is not rendered too dark by excessive amounts of river-borne sediment.
Their physical structure is dominated by the skeletons of corals, which are carnivorous animals living off zooplankton.
However, in addition to corals there are enormous quantities of algae, some calcareous, which help to build the reefs.
The 2,000 kilometer complex of reefs known as the Great Barrier Reef, which forms a gigantic natural breakwater off the northeast coast of Australia, is by far the greatest coral structure on Earth.
Coral reefs have fascinated scientists for almost 200 years, and some of the most pertinent observations of them were made in the 1830s by Charles Darwin on the voyage of the Beagle.
Darwin s theory was that the succession from one coral reef type to another could be achieved by the upward growth of coral from a sinking platform, and that there would be a progression from a fringing reef, through the barrier reef stage until, with the disappearance through subsidence (sinking) of the central island, only a reef-enclosed lagoon or atoll would survive.
The drill holes passed through more than a thousand meters of coral before reaching the rock substratum of the ocean floor, and indicated that the coral had been growing upward for tens of millions of years as Earth's crust subsided at a rate of between 15 and 51 meters per million years.
There are some submarine islands called guyots and seamounts, in which subsidence associated with sea-floor spreading has been too speedy for coral growth to keep up.
Like mangrove swamps, coral reefs are extremely important habitats.
Their diversity of coral genera is greatest in the warm waters of the Indian Ocean and the western Pacific.
