Kramer initiated important new kinds of research regarding how animals orient and navigate.
He then set up experiments with caged starlings and found that their orientation was, in fact, in the proper migratory direction except when the sky was overcast, at which times there was no clear direction to their restless movements.
Kramer surmised, therefore, that they were orienting according to the position of the Sun.
He found that under these circumstances, the birds oriented with respect to the new "Sun."
On overcast days, however, the birds were disoriented and had trouble locating their food box.
The results clearly indicated that the birds were orienting according to the stars.
Toth's knapping produced 56 percent flakes with the cortex on the right, and 44 percent left-oriented flakes.
At seven sites he found that 57 percent of the flakes were right-oriented, and 43 percent left, a pattern almost identical to that produced today.
The disorienting effects of this mismatch between external time cues and internal schedules may persist, like our jet lag, for several days or weeks until certain cues such as the daylight/darkness cycle reset the organism's clock to synchronize with the daily rhythm of the new environment.
Child-oriented advertisements are more likely to include magic and fantasy than advertisements aimed at adults.
In Denmark and Sweden agricultural reforms took place gradually from the late eighteenth century through the first half of the nineteenth, resulting in a new class of peasant landowners with a definite market orientation.
Furthermore, the birds orient themselves carefully with regard to the Sun and gently flap their wings to increase convection cooling.
One moves from the task-oriented time consciousness of the peasant (working one job after another, as time and light permit) and the time-filling busyness of the domestic servant (who always hand something to do) to an effort to maximize product per unit of time. 
A sharp rise in demand for grain abroad also encouraged farmers in the Northeast and Midwest to become more commercially oriented.
