Modern architectural forms generally have three separate components comparable to elements of the human body: a supporting skeleton or frame, an outer skin enclosing the interior spaces, and equipment, similar to the body  s vital organs and systems.
These plants propagate by producing spores Ctiny fertilized cells that contain all the instructions for making a new plant Cbut the spore are unprotected by any outer coating and carry no supply of nutrient.
The seed has an outer coating that surrounds the genetic material of the new plant, and inside this covering is a concentrated supply of nutrients.
However, its position with respect to the surroundings could be changed by revolving either the inner cage containing the birds or the outer walls, which served as the background.
As the tool was made, the core was rotated clockwise, and the flakes, removed in sequence, had a little crescent of cortex (the core's outer surface) on the side.
Also, because of their relative locations, the four Jovian planets are known as the outer planets, while the terrestrial planets are known as the inner planets.
One of the outer planets, Saturn, has a density of only 0.7 that of water, which means that Saturn would float in water.
Among the superbly preserved Messel fossils are insects with iridescent exoskeletons (hard outer coverings), frogs with skin and blood vessels intact, and even entire small mammals with preserved fur and soft tissue.
A male deer makes a buck rub by stripping the bark (outer layer) of a small tree with its antlers.
Much of the water on both planets is also thought to have come from impacts from comets, icy bodies formed in the outer solar system.
In thinking of ice so far from the Sun, it is important not to judge its behavior from that of the much warmer ice we know on Earth; at the temperatures of the outer solar system, ice on the surface is nearly as hard as rock, and behaves similarly.
The interior consists of a large central core in which the fungus is grown, below it is   cellar   of empty space, above it is an   attic   of empty space, and within the ridges on the outer wall of the nest, there are many small tunnels that connect the cellar and the attic.
Its surface forms an uneven and rather rough platform around the coast, about the level of low water, and its outer edge slopes downwards into the sea.
