First, the major predators of deer  wolves, cougar, and lynx  have been greatly reduced in numbers.
These unassignable animals include a large swimming predator called Anomalocaris and a soft-bodied animal called Wiwaxia, which ate detritus or algae.
In fact, when tapes of begging tree swallows were played at an artificial swallow nest containing an egg, the egg in that   noisy   nest was taken or destroyed by predators before the egg in a nearby quiet nest in 29 of 37 trials.
These higher-frequency sounds do not travel as far, and so may better conceal the individuals producing them, who are especially vulnerable to predators in their ground nests.
The hypothesis that begging calls have evolved properties that reduce their potential for attracting predators yields a prediction: baby birds of species that experience high rates of nest predation should produce softer begging signals of higher frequency than nestlings of other species less often victimized by nest predators.
This prediction was supported by data collected in one survey of 24 species from an Arizona forest, more evidence that predator pressure favors the evolution of begging calls that are hard to detect and pinpoint.
Given that predators can make it costly to beg for food, what benefit do begging nestlings derive from their communications?
Biological hypotheses include ecological changes brought about by the evolution of cooperation between insects and flowering plants or of bottom-feeding predators in the oceans.
The ecology of the region also permitted armed predators to prowl the surrounding barrens, which were almost impossible for a state to control.
In the varied and constantly changing light environment of the forest, an animal must be able to send visual signals to members of its own species and at the same time avoid being detected by predators.
An animal can hide from predators by choosing the light environment in which its pattern is least visible.
Parasitism is a kind of predator-prey relationship in which one organism, the parasite, derives its food at the expense of its symbiotic associate, the host.
As an example, plants make chemicals toxic to fungal and bacterial parasites, along with ones toxic to predatory animals (sometimes they are the same chemicals).
Leaving its insect predators behind, the cordgrass has been spreading slowly and steadily along Washington  s tidal estuaries on the west coast, crowding out the native plants and drastically altering the landscape by trapping sediment.
From a plant's evolutionary view point, however, it was also a land of opportunity, free of competitors, and predator arid full of carbon dioxide and sunlight (the raw materials for photosynthesis, which are present in far higher concentrations in air than in water).
Moose reached Isle Royale in Lake Superior by crossing over winter ice and multiplied freely there in isolation without predators.
When experimental populations are set up under simple laboratory conditions, the predator often exterminates its prey and then becomes extinct itself, having nothing left to eat.
Low prey population levels then provide inadequate food for the predators, causing the predator population to decrease.
In this situation the predator and prey populations may continue in this cyclical pattern for some time.
Population cycles are characteristic of small mammals, and they sometimes appear to be brought about by predators.
Two factors appear to be generating the cycle: food plants and predators.
A key predator of the snowshoe hare is the Canada lynx.
What causes the predator-prey oscillations?
When food was added to these plots (no food effect) and predators were excluded (no predator effect) from an experimental area, hare numbers increased tenfold and stayed there  the cycle was lost.
However, the cycle was retained if either of the factors was allowed to operate alone: if predators were excluded but food was not added (food effect alone), or if food was added in the presence of predators (predator effect alone).
Without predators, the species that is the best competitor for food, shelter, nesting sites, and other environmental resources tends to dominate and exclude the species with which it competes.
However, if the community contains a predator of the strongest competitor species, then the population of that competitor is controlled.
Therefore, from the stand point of diversity, it is usually a mistake to eliminate a major predator from a community.
Another potential cost of this activity is greater exposure to predators since play is attention-getting behavior.
Prey species, like young deer or goats, for example, typically play by performing sudden flight movements and turns, whereas predator species, such as cats, practice stalking, pouncing, and biting.
Play allows a young animal to explore its environment and practice skills in comparative safety since the surrounding adults generally do not expect the young do deal with threats or predators.
This is especially true when play consists of practicing normal aggressive or predatory behaviors.
Birds were predators of peppered moths.
Additionally, translocation of predators or competitors may have negative impacts on other species, resulting in an overall loss of diversity.
By the 1960s the raccoon had become a major predator of the canvasback ducks nesting in southwestern Manitoba.
In such areas, their arboreal habits and the presence of hollow den trees should have offered some protection from wolves and other large predators.
When the Maori arrived in New Zealand, they encountered birds that had been evolving for 80 million years without the presence of mammalian predators.
The actions of these potential nest predators could have reduced moa populations without leaving much direct evidence.
Many of the groups of animals that typify the filter-feeding lifestyle in shallow water have deep-sea representatives that have become predatory.
In other words, in a rich system if a species is lost, there is a good chance that other species will take over its function as prey, predator, producer, decomposer, or whatever role it played.
The advantage of teeth and claws as predatory tools is obvious.
