Iron hoes, which made the land more productive, and iron weapons, which made the warrior more powerful, had symbolic meaning in a number of West Africa societies.
An individual's success in propagating his or her genes can be affected by more than just his or her own personal reproductive success.
From north to south in the Yucatan Peninsula, where the Maya lived, rainfall ranges from 18 to 100 inches (457 to 2,540 millimeters) per year, and the soils become thicker, so that the southern peninsula was agriculturally more productive and supported denser populations.
These natural salt marshes are among the most productive habitats in the marine environment.
The actual level of intensity depends on such factors as the physical layout, population density, and productive activities of a metropolis.
Apart from this, being able to give up labor-intensive grain production freed both the land and the workforce for more productive agricultural divisions.
The ancestors of plants were photosynthetic single-celled organisms that gave rise to plants presumably lacked true roots, stems, leaves, and complex reproductive structures such as flowers.
Within the productive sector, there was a growth of a variety of specialist craftspeople.
Some groups that had descended from the same parent population were no longer reproductively compatible  they had evolved into separate species.
In other groups, however, genetic divergences had not proceeded so far, and the descendants could still interbreed   for them, reproductive isolation was not completed, and so speciation had not occurred. 
Pioneer species--- those that occur only in the earliest stages of colonization--- tend to have high rates of invasion because they produce very large numbers of reproductive propagules (seeds, spores, and so on) and because they have an efficient means of dispersal (normally, wind).
If colonizers produce short-lived reproductive propagules, then they must produce very large numbers unless they have an efficient means of dispersal to suitable new habitats.
As time went on, such communities gradually learned how to direct the flow of water to enhance the productive capacity of the land, while the introduction of the iron plow eventually led to the cultivation of heavy soils not previously susceptible to agriculture.
They may have had relatively low reproductive rates; apparently, they usually laid only one egg at a time.
Geographic isolation creates opportunities for new species to develop, but it does not necessarily lead to new species because speciation occurs only when the gene pool undergoes enough changes to establish reproductive barriers between the isolated population and its parent population.
Pollen, a powdery substance, which is produced by flowering plants and contains male reproductive cells, is usually carried from plant to plant by insects or birds, but some plants rely on the wind to carry their pollen.
At a much larger scale, baleen whales and whale sharks are also efficient filter-feeders in productive coastal or polar waters, although their filtered particles comprise small animals such as copepods and krill rather than phytoplankton.
