In 1929 the United States motion picture industry released more than 300 sound films  a rough figure, since a number were silent films with music tracks, or films prepared in dual versions, to take account of the many cinemas not yet wired for sound.
Large quantities of water may also be stored in limestones when joints and cracks have been enlarged to form cavities.
Once established, a stand of Spartina begins to trap sediment, changing the substrate elevation, and eventually the stand evolves into a high marsh system where Spartina is gradually displaced by higher-elevation, brackish-water species.
However, because the ocean basins really are short-lived features on geologic times scales, reconstructing the world  s geography by backtracking along the hot-spot trail works only for the last 5 percent or so of geologic time.
At greater depths within Earth, the pressure of the overlying rock causes pores and cracks to close, reducing the space that pore water can occupy, and almost complete closure occurs at a depth of about 10 kilometers.
The water table is the underground boundary below which all the cracks and pores are filled with water.
By 1850 the United States possessed roughly 9,000 miles of railroad track; then years later it had over 30,000 miles, more than the rest of the world combined.
Farmers along the tracks began to specialize in corps that they could market in distant locations.
Chicago became the region  s hub, linking the farms of the upper Midwest to New York and other eastern cities by more than 2,000 miles of track in 1855.
It was not until the Cambrian period, beginning about 600 million years ago, that a great proliferation of macroscopic species occurred on Earth and produced a fossil record that allows us to track the rise and fall of biodiversity.
Released troops of monkeys were kept under visual observation and followed by radio tracking of 16 females.
Although the troops appeared to undergo initial problems, causing them to split up, all the tracked females settled into normal behavioral patterns. 
Some features formed when the crust cracked, flooding many of the craters with water from the interior.
Most seagrass beds seem tolerant of considerable changes in salinity (salt levels) and can be found in brackish (somewhat salty) waters as well as in full- strength seawater.
