They bear a strong resemblance to river systems on Earth, and geologists think that they are dried-up beds of long-gone rivers that once carried rainfall on Mars from the mountains down into the valleys.
Information on temperature, rainfall, and other aspects of the climate that can be inferred from the systematic changes in properties is usually referred to as proxy data.
An annual rainfall of four inches is often used to define the limits of a desert.
The impact of rainfall upon the surface water and groundwater resources of the desert is greatly influenced by landforms.
From north to south in the Yucatan Peninsula, where the Maya lived, rainfall ranges from 18 to 100 inches (457 to 2,540 millimeters) per year, and the soils become thicker, so that the southern peninsula was agriculturally more productive and supported denser populations.
But rainfall in the Maya homeland is unpredictably variable between years; some recent years have had three or four times more rain than other years.
Although southern Maya areas received more rainfall than northern areas, problems of water were paradoxically more severe in the wet south.
The climatic changes in southwestern Asia were more subtle, in that they involved shifts in mountain snow lines, rainfall patterns, and vegetation cover.
It depends on the rate at which water enters the lake, and that depends on the rainfall and the evaporation rate.
In the period 1970 to 1986, rainfall in the area decreased from 1,000 millimeters to 650 millimeters per annum, while above-average temperatures speeded up the evapotranspiration rate (the rate at which water is lost to the atmosphere through evaporation and the processes of plant life).
Water temperature can fluctuate seasonally or even daily and changing level of rainfall can lead to fluctuations in the concentration of chemical in the water or even to period in which the aquatic habitat dries up.
The areas that are now desert were, like all arid regions, very susceptible to cycles of higher and lower levels of rainfall, resulting in major, sudden changes in distributions of plants and animals.
On the other hand, rainfall increased in the interior of western Africa, and the northern limit of the tsetse fly, an insect fatal to cattle, moved south.
By this time, the Saharan people were probably using domestic crops, experimenting with such summer rainfall crops as sorghum and millet as they moved out of areas where they could grow wheat, barley, and other Mediterranean crops.
Savannas experience an annual rainfall of between 1,000 and 2,000 millimeters, most of it falling in a five- to eight-month wet season.
In these areas, rainfall per month exceeds that in the above definition, so other factors must contribute to savanna formation. 
The advantage was that crops grown in such areas were not as dependent on rainfall and therefore produced a more reliable harvest.
The effect of thigmothermy is especially evident in the Andean toad during rainfall its body temperature corresponds to the temperature of the warm earth and not to the much cooler air temperature.
Scientists try to document as many past El Nino events as possible by piecing together bits of historical evidence, such as sea-surface temperature records, daily observations of atmospheric pressure and rainfall, fisheries   records from South America, and the writings of Spanish colonists dating back to the fifteenth century.
The 1997-1998 El  Nifio brought copious and damaging rainfall to the southern United States, from California to Florida.
