Genetic engineering also may provide a partial solution, as new strains of drought-resistant crops continue to be developed.
Remarkably resistant to the vicissitudes of ocean travel, they can survive prolonged immersion in saltwater when they come to rest on warm beaches and the conditions are favorable, the seed coats soften.
The empty shell of a snail or clam may be left behind, and if it is sufficiently durable and resistant to dissolution, it may remain basically unchanged for a long period of time.
They are composed of minerals uncommon on Earth, all rich in calcium, aluminum, and titanium, the most refractory (resistant to melting) of the major elements in the nebula.
Most often, these plants either contain a gene making them resistant to the herbicide glyphosate or they contain an insect-resistant gene that produces a protein called Bt toxin.
Another unanswered question is whether herbicide-resistant genes will move into the populations of weeds.
If the crop plants hybridize and reproduce with weedy relatives, then this herbicide-resistant gene will be perpetuated in the offspring.
In this way, the resistant gene can make its way into the weed population.
For example, canola readily hybridizes with mustard weed species and could transfer its herbicide-resistant genes to those weeds.
Of special concern is the development of insect populations resistant to the Bt toxin.
This pesticide has been applied to plants for decades without the development of insect-resistant populations.
That leaves only the genetically resistant insects alive to perpetuate the population.
When these resistant insects mate, they will produce a high proportion of offspring capable of surviving in the presence of the Bt toxin.
Planting a glyphosate-resistant crop commits a farmer to using that herbicide for the reason, probably to the exclusion of all other herbicides and other weed-control practices.
One factor is the direct effect of logging, which often turns a forest into something approximating a huge pile of kindling (wood for burning): the ground in a logged forest may remain covered with branches and treetops, left behind when the valuable trunks are carted away; a dense growth of new vegetation springs up, further increasing the forest  s fuel loads; and the trees logged and removed are of course the biggest and most fire-resistant individuals, leaving behind smaller and more flammable trees.
The mature ponderosa trees have bark two inches thick and are relatively resistant to fire, which instead burns out the understory  the lower layer  of fire-sensitive Douglas fir seedlings that have grown up since the previous fire.
However, loggers concentrated on removing those big, old, valuable, fire-resistant ponderosa pines, while fire suppression for decades let the understory fill up with Douglas fir saplings that would in turn become valuable when full-grown.
Apparently, species-rich plots were likely to contain some drought-resistant plant species that grew better in drought years, compensating for the poor growth of less-tolerant species.
Many parts of plants and animals are extremely resistant to the digestive systems of animals and pass completely through the body with little or no alteration.
