The most widely accepted theory, championed by anthropologists in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, envisions theater as emerging out of myth and ritual.
Perceiving an apparent connection between certain actions performed by the group and the result it desires, the group repeats, refines and formalizes those actions into fixed ceremonies, or rituals.
Stories (myths) may then grow up around a ritual.
Performers may wear costumes and masks to represent the mythical characters or supernatural forces in the rituals or in accompanying celebrations.
Although origin in ritual has long been the most popular, it is by no means the only theory about how the theater came into being.
Why did theater develop, and why was it valued after it ceased to fulfill the function of ritual?
Those who knew the secrets of making iron gained ritual and sometimes political power.
The function and status of ceramics in China varied from dynasty to dynasty, so they may be utilitarian, burial, trade-collectors', or even ritual objects, according to their quality and the era in which they were made.
They were designed to be put in places where these beings could manifest themselves in order to be the recipients of ritual actions.
Thus it made sense to show the statue looking ahead at what was happening in front of it, so that the living performer of the ritual could interact with the divine or deceased recipient.
The ritualized visual display communicates in close quarters when a female has approached.
Although church ritual hand sustained an interest in timekeeping throughout the centuries of urban collapse that followed the fall of Rome, church time was nature  s time.
Bees did not appear to be injured in these fights, which were apparently ritualized.
While some of these urban centers were identified with a particular economic function, such as proximity to gold or iron deposits or a strategic location on a major trade route, others served primarily as administrative centers or the site of temples for the official cult or other ritual observances.
For example, the most important traditional Navajo rituals include the production of large floor paintings.
These complex paintings serve as memory aids to guide the singers during the performance of the ritual songs, which can last up to nine days.
When the world, which was created in beauty, becomes ugly and disorderly, the Navajo gather to perform rituals with songs and make sand paintings to restore beauty and harmony to the world.
Their worship was linked to the rituals connected with one  s progress through life  birth, marriage, and death   and with invoking protection against danger, making prophecies, and promoting healing, rather than to any code of behavior.
