Within a vertical distance of just a few tens of meters, trees disappear as a life-form and are replaced by low shrubs, herbs, and grasses.
About a year after the opening of the first Kinetoscope parlor in 1894, showmen such as Louis and Auguste Lumiere, Thomas Armat and Charles Francis Jenkins, and Orville and Woodville Latham (with the assistance of Edison's former assistant, William Dickson) perfected projection devices.
Although early exhibitors regularly accompanied movies with live acts, the substance of the movies themselves is mass-produced, prerecorded material that can easily be reproduced by theaters with little or no active participation by the exhibitor.
We need to know what aspects of a community are most important to the community  s resistance to destruction, as well as its recovery.
Famous explorers of the north American frontier, Lewis and Clark arrived at the mouth of the Columbia River on November 14, 1805, in nearly starved circumstances.
The exact role of other factors is much more difficult to pinpoint Dfor instance, Teotihuac  n  s religious significance as a shrine, the historical situation in and around the Valley of Mexico toward the end of the first millennium B.C., the ingenuity and foresightedness of Teotihuac  n  s elite, and, finally, the impact of natural disasters, such as the volcanic eruptions of the late first millennium B.C.
Long-distance trade in obsidian probably gave the elite residents of Teotihuac  n access to a wide variety of exotic good, as well as a relatively prosperous life.
Over long periods of time, substances whose physical and chemical properties change with the ambient climate at the time can be deposited in a systematic way to provide a continuous record of changes in those properties overtime, sometimes for hundreds or thousands of years.
Other statues were designed to be placed within an architectural setting, for instance, in front of the monumental entrance gateways to temples known as pylons, or in pillared courts, where they would be placed against or between pillars: their frontality worked perfectly within the architectural context.
He found that under these circumstances, the birds oriented with respect to the new "Sun."
In many instances, spectators in the era before recorded sound experienced elaborate aural presentations alongside movies' visual images, from the Japanese benshi (narrators) crafting multivoiced dialogue narratives to original musical compositions performed by symphony-size orchestras in Europe and the United States.
For instance, some social groups employ shunning (a person can remain in the community, but others are forbidden to interact with the person) as a device to bring into line individuals whose behavior goes beyond that allowed by the particular group.
For instance, apparently normal daily periods of biological activity were maintained for about a week by the fungus Neurospora when it was intentionally isolated from all geophysical timing cues while orbiting in a space shuttle.
Further evidence for persistent internal rhythms appears when the usual external cycles are shifted  either experimentally or by rapid east-west travel over great distances.
For instance, if a homing pigeon is to navigate with its Sun compass, its clock must be properly set by cues provided by the daylight/darkness cycle.
The mercantile economy was also characterized by a peculiar moral stance that is typical of people who live by trade  an attitude that is individualistic, calculating, risk taking, and adaptive to circumstances.
Dependence on long-distance trade also meant that the great empires of the Middle East were built both literally and figuratively on shifting sand.
Together with William Ramsay, Rayleigh isolated the gas (separating it from other substances into its pure state) and named it argon.
The planets, in order of their distance from the Sun, are Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto.
Pluto is not included in either category, because its great distance from Earth and its small size make this planet's true nature a mystery.
The substances that make up both groups of planets are divided into three groups  gases, rocks, and ices  based on their melting points.
Less colorful birds and animals that inhabit the rain forest tend to rely on other forms of signaling other than the visual, particularly over long distances.
In densely wooded environments, sound is the best means of communication over distance because in comparison with light, it travels with little impediment from trees and other vegetation.
In forests, visual signals can be seen only at short distances, where they are not obstructed by trees.
The sounds made as each wing is opened carry extremely well over distance and advertise his presence widely.
For instance, several kinds of birds feed on insects flushed out of the grass by grazing cattle.
Some of these were certainly brought from long distances, but demands were inevitably placed on the local area.
The circumstances that had allowed natives to become Romanized also led the self-sustaining military community of the frontier area to become effectively British.
An abandoned field, for instance, will be invaded successively by herbaceous plants (plants with little or no woody tissue), shrubs, and trees, eventually becoming a forest.
An ant colony may be legitimately called a superorganism because its communication system is so highly organized that the colony always works as a whole and appropriately according to the circumstances.
This addition of a chemically precipitated substance into pore spaces is termed "permineralization."
Petrifaction may also involve a simultaneous exchange of the original substance of a dead plant or animal with mineral matter of a different composition.
This process is termed "replacement" because solutions have dissolved the original material and replaced it with an equal volume of the new substance.
The same minerals that occur in refractory inclusions are believed to be the earliest-formed substances to have condensed out of the solar nebula.
It takes twice as much effort to breathe during sleep because of greater resistance to airflow in the airways and changes in the efficiency of the muscles used for breathing.
Also there is a regular cycle of change in resistance between the two sides of the nose.
If something blocks the "good" side, such as congestion from allergies or a cold, then resistance increases dramatically.
Archaeologists find that even the most isolated residences during the eleventh and twelfth centuries obtained some pottery, and probably food, from some distance away, while major ceremonial events were opportunities for sharing food and crafts.
These include conducting vessels that transport water and minerals upward from the roots and that move the photosynthetic products from the leaves to the rest of the plant body and the stiffening substance lignin, which support the plant body, helping it expose maximum surface area to sunlight.
Charcoal, made from wood and thus in limited supply, was replaced with coal-derived coke (substance left after coal is heated) as steam-driven bellows came into use for producing of raw iron.
Some areas, because of their soil texture, topographical position, or distance from rivers or groundwater, have virtually no water available to plants, whereas others do.
Uruk, for instance, had two patron gods  Anu, the god of the sky and sovereign of all other gods, and Inanna, a goddess of love and war  and there were others, patrons of different cities.
In the intergranular spaces of rocks, however, fluid must flow around and between grains in a tortuous path; this winding path causes a resistance to flow.The rate at which the flowing water overcomes this resistance is related to the permeability of rock.
Under these circumstances, archaeologist Andrew Smith believes, the small herds of Bos primigenius in the desert became smaller, more closely knit breeding units as the drought took hold.
For instance, as we all know, dogs recognize each other via smell.
Roman pottery was transported not only in large quantities but also over substantial distances.
One of the problems is providing a clear definition of play is that it involves the same behaviors that take place in other circumstances---dominance, predation, competition, and real fighting.
In general, the subpopulations of most species are separated from each other by some measurable distance.
For instance, in a cross-country comparison of preschools in China, Japan, and the United States, researchers found that parents in the three countries view the purpose of preschools very differently.
If, for instance, the program is expected to provide long-term increases in IQ(intelligence quotient) scores, it is a disappointment.
For instance, compared with children who did not participate in early intervention programs, participants in various programs showed gains in emotional or cognitive development, better educational outcomes, increased economic self-sufficiency, reduced level of criminal activity, and improved health-related behaviors.
Aggressive species apparently mark prospective nest sites with pheromones, chemical substances secreted by some animals for communication with other members of their species.
In other instances, such as the Indus River Valley, the cities lacked a royal precinct and the ostentatious palaces that marked their contemporaries elsewhere.
This in turn allowed the easy transfer of artistic ideas and motifs over great distances, from one medium to another, and in a different scale in ways that had been difficult, if not impossible, in the previous period. 
These more vulnerable members of society could safely stay in a fixed village rather than be forced regularly to move great distances as part of a nomadic existence, with its greater risk of accidents and trauma.
He proposed water as the single substance from which everything in the world was made and developed a model of the universe with Earth as a flat disk floating in water.
He doubted that the world and all its contents could be made of water and proposed instead a formless and unobservable substance he called   apeiron   that was the source of all matter.
It is possible for anyone to create   ideas   about the nature and structure of the universe, for instance, and many times these ideas can be so consistent and elaborately structured, or just so apparently obvious, that they can be persuasive to many people.
This scenario is not likely to occur in many instances because there are no weedy relatives growing near the crop plant.
Farmers are attempting to slow the development of insect resistance in Bt crops by, for example, planting nontransgenic border rows to provide a refuge for susceptible insects.
The ancient Egyptians invented a different way of writing and a new substance to writ on --papyrus, a precursor of paper, made from a wetland plant.
After the separation, any creature unable to cross a considerable distance of ocean could not migrate to New Zealand.
was the rise of the polls, or city-state, and each polls developed a system of government that was appropriate to its circumstances.
Various committees acted as an executive branch, implementing policies of the assembly and supervising, for instance, the food and water supplies and public buildings.
These are actually made by pouring thin, finely controlled streams of colored sands or pulverized vegetable and mineral substances, pollen, and flowers in precise patterns on the ground.
As agricultural economies became more diversified and local food supplies could be purchased both locally and over longer distances, a far-reaching economic interdependence resulted.
Interest in long distance trade brought about some cultural homogeneity from trade and gift exchange, and perhaps even led to piracy.
American archaeologist William Rathje developed a hypothesis that considered an explosion in long-distance exchange a fundamental cause of Mayan civilization in Mesoamerica.
Thus, argued Rathje, long-distance trade networks were organized through local ceremonial centers and their leaders.
Extensive long-distance trade was a consequence rather than a cause of complex societies.
Organisms can also be carried to islands by other organisms, such as sea birds that travel long distances with seeds clinging to their feathers.
For instance, the Galapagos island chain has a total of thirteen species of closely related birds called Galapagos finches.
Callisto, the outermost of Jupiter's four largest satellites, orbits the planet in seventeen days at a distance from Jupiter of two million kilometers.
Petroleum is defined as a gaseous, liquid, and semisolid naturally occurring substance that consists chiefly of hydrocarbons (chemical compounds of carbon and hydrogen).
Pollen, a powdery substance, which is produced by flowering plants and contains male reproductive cells, is usually carried from plant to plant by insects or birds, but some plants rely on the wind to carry their pollen.
In these circumstances, animals are neither constrained to get the last calorie out of their diet nor is energy conservation a high priority.
Even fishes can become successful filter-feeders in some circumstances Although the vast majority of marine fishes are carnivores, in near-surface regions of high productivity the concentrations of larger phytoplankton (the plant component of plankton) are sufficient to support huge populations of filter-feeding sardines and anchovies.
Third, in a species-rich ecosystem, diseases may spread more slowly because most species will be relatively less abundant, thus increasing the average distance between individuals of the same species and hampering disease transmission among individuals.
In the most extreme instances, natives literally bought the whole package of Roman culture.
When the lagoon is wide and deep and the reef lies at some distance from the shore and rises from deep water it is called a barrier reef.
They also have significance because they provide coastal protection, opportunities for recreation, and are potential sources of substances like medicinal drugs.
Corn, for instance, can be grown on the dry soil and marginal hill land of North China, where it is used for food, fuel, and fodder and provides something like one-seventh of the food energy available in the area.
Raised beaches are remnants of former coastlines at higher levels relative to the present shoreline and visible, for instance, along the Californian coast north of San Francisco, the height of a raised beach above the present shoreline, however, does not generally give a straightforward indication of the height of a former sea level.
Tectonic movements involve displacements in the plates that make up Earth  s crust, Middle and Late Pleistocene raised beaches in the Mediterranean are one instance of such movements.
