Each of these methods compares an infant's state prior to the introduction of a stimulus with its state during or immediately following the stimulus.
The difference between the two measures provides the researcher with an indication of the level and duration of the response to the stimulus.
The third, and most potent, limitation is that it is not possible to be certain that the infant's response was due to the stimulus presented or to a change from no stimulus to a stimulus.
The infant may be responding to aspects of the stimulus different than those identified by the investigator.
Heart and respiration monitors provide the investigator with the number of heartbeats or breaths taken when a new stimulus is presented.
Numerical increases are used as quantifiable indicators of heightened interest in the new stimulus.
The first is the habituation-dishabituation technique, in which a single stimulus is presented repeatedly to the infant until there is a measurable decline (habituation) in whatever attending behavior is being observed.
At that point a new stimulus is presented, and any recovery (dishabituation) in responsiveness is recorded.
If the infant fails to dishabituate and continues to show habituation with the new stimulus, it is assumed that the baby is unable to perceive the new stimulus as different.
The second technique relies on evoked potentials, which are electrical brain responses that may be related to a particular stimulus because of where they originate.
Changes in the electrical pattern of the brain indicate that the stimulus is getting through to the infant's central nervous system and eliciting some form of response.
Evidence suggests that an important stimulus behind the rise of early civilizations was the development of settled agriculture, which unleashed a series of changes in the organization of human communities that culminated in the rise of large ancient empires.
It was precisely this opportunity to participate in public life that provided a stimulus for the briar unfolding of classical Greek culture.
