Geothermal energy becomes available in a practical form when underground heat is transferred by water that is heated as it passes through a subsurface region of hot rocks (a heat reservoir) that may be hundreds or thousands of feet deep.
    By far the most abundant form of geothermal energy occurs at the relatively low temperatures of 80   to 180   centigrade.
Reykjavik, the capital of Iceland, is entirely heated by geothermal energy derived from volcanic heat.
Geothermal reservoirs with temperatures above 180   centigrade are useful for generating electricity.
By the late 1990s some 70 geothermal electric-generating plants were in operation in California, Utah, Nevada, and Hawaii, generating enough power to supply about a million people.
Eighteen countries now generate electricity using geothermal heat.
Like most other energy sources, geothermal energy presents some environmental problems.
In addition, water heated geothermally can contain salts and toxic materials dissolved from the hot rock.
The contribution of geothermal energy to the world's energy future is difficult to estimate.
Geothermal energy is in a sense not renewable, because in most cases the heat would be drawn out of a reservoir much more rapidly than it would be replaced by the very slow geological processes by which heat flows through solid rock into a heat reservoir.
Although the potential is enormous, it is likely that in the near future geothermal energy can make important local contributions only where the resource is close to the user and the economics are favorable, as they are in California, New Zealand, and Iceland.
Geothermal energy probably will not make large-scale contributions to the world energy budget until well into the twenty-first century, if ever.
In contrast to mammals and birds, amphibians are unable to produce thermal energy through their metabolic activity, which would allow them to regulate their body temperature independent of the surrounding or ambient temperature.
On clear still nights when the heat island is pronounced, a small thermal low-pressure area forms over the city.
