Many are found in tropical and subtropical areas of the world, where accumulation of high concentrations of metals may afford some protection against plant-eating insects and microbial pathogens.
Proxy temperature records have been reconstructed from ice core drilled out of the central Greenland ice cap, calcite shells embedded in layered lake sediments in Western Europe, ocean floor sediment cores from the tropical Atlantic Ocean, ice cores from Peruvian glaciers, and ice cores from eastern Antarctica.
To understand the ancient Mayan people who lived in the area that is today southern Mexico and Central America and the ecological difficulties they faced, one must first consider their environment, which we think of as "jungle" or "tropical rainforest."
Properly speaking, tropical rainforests grow in high-rainfall equatorial areas that remain wet or humid all year round.
But the Maya homeland lies more than sixteen hundred kilometers from the equator, at latitudes 17 to 22 degrees north, in a habitat termed a "seasonal tropical forest."
If one focuses on the wet months, one calls the Maya homeland a "seasonal tropical forest"; if one focuses on the dry months, one could instead describe it as a "seasonal desert."
Located in tropical areas at low altitudes, savannas are stable ecosystems, some wet and some dry consisting of vast grasslands with scattered trees or shrubs.
They studied competition and nest spacing in populations of stingless bees in tropical dry forests in Costa Rica.
Stingless bees are abundant in tropical and subtropical environments, where they gather nectar and pollen from a wide variety of flowers.
They concentrated their studies on a thirteen-hectare tract of tropical dry forest that contained numerous nests of nine species of stingless bees.
In a tropical rain forest, for example, a very large quantity of plant material builds up above the surface of the ground.
Structure is essentially the architecture of vegetation, and as in the case of some tropical forests, it can be extremely complicated.
In a mature floodplain tropical forest in the Amazon River basin, the canopy (the uppermost layers of a forest, formed by the crowns of trees) takes on a stratified structure.
In time, this organization became a state, and knowledge of its functioning was exportable, as were pottery, tropical bird feathers, specialized stone materials, and other local commodities.
It is interesting that temperate seagrass beds accumulate sediments from sources outside the beds, whereas tropical seagrass beds derive most of their sediments from within.
They do best when the relative humidity in their nest is above 96 percent and the temperature is fairly high, an optimum of about 79  F for temperate zone species and about 86  F for tropical species.
Some tropical termites are more ingenious engineers, constructing huge above-ground nests with built-in   air conditioning   that keeps the nest moist, at a constant temperature, and well supplied with oxygen.
Indeed, they have been called the marine version of the tropical rain forest, rivaling their terrestrial counterparts in both richness of species and biological productivity.
