Desertification is accomplished primarily through the loss of stabilizing natural vegetation and the subsequent accelerated erosion of the soil by wind and water.
Even in the areas that retain a soil cover, the reduction of vegetation typically results in the loss of the soil's ability to absorb substantial quantities of water.
The gradual drying of the soil caused by its diminished ability to absorb water results in the further loss of vegetation, so that a cycle of progressive surface deterioration is established. 
Since the raising of most crops necessitates the prior removal of the natural vegetation, crop failures leave extensive tracts of land devoid of a plant cover and susceptible to wind and water erosion. 
The raising of livestock is a major economic activity in semiarid lands, where grasses are generally the dominant type of natural vegetation.
The consequences of an excessive number of livestock grazing in an area are the reduction of the vegetation cover and the trampling and pulverization of the soil.
The protein content of shade-grown vegetation, for example, was much lower than that for plants grown in clearings.
One type of seed-bearing plant, the angiosperm, includes all forms of blooming vegetation.
The daytime quality of light in forests varies with the density of the vegetation, the angle of the Sun, and the amount of cloud in the sky.
In densely wooded environments, sound is the best means of communication over distance because in comparison with light, it travels with little impediment from trees and other vegetation.
They sting other insects and large herbivores (animals that eat only plants) and even clip surrounding vegetation that grows near the tree.
When the ants are removed, the trees usually die, probably because herbivores damage them so much that they are unable to compete with surrounding vegetation for light and growing space.
Their major point was that the distribution of a given species was controlled by the habitat requirements of that species and that therefore the vegetation types were a simple consequence of the ecologies of individual plant species.
The climatic changes in southwestern Asia were more subtle, in that they involved shifts in mountain snow lines, rainfall patterns, and vegetation cover.
There are two general classes of vegetation: long-lived perennials, which may be succulent (water-storing) and are often dwarfed and woody, and annuals or ephemerals, which have a short life cycle and may form a fairly dense stand immediately after rain.
The perennial vegetation adjusts to the aridity by means of various avoidance mechanisms.
Once the humus layer disappears, nutrients cannot be recycled and leach from the soil, converting soil from fertile to infertile and making it suitable only for savanna vegetation.
A fertile, plowed field is rapidly invaded by a large variety of weeds, whereas a neighboring construction site from which the soil has been compacted or removed to expose a coarse, infertile parent material may remain virtually free of vegetation for many months or even years despite receiving the same input of seeds as the plowed field. 
This is particularly important for species that colonize an environment where there is no existing vegetation to ameliorate climatic extremes and in which there maybe great climatic diversity.
In fact, for mature soils in many parts of the world, the predominant type of natural vegetation is considered the most important direct influence on soil characteristics.
Thus prairies and tundra regions, which have characteristic vegetations, also have characteristic soils.
More complex forms of vegetation play several vital roles with respect to the soil.
The increased erosion that often accompanies agricultural use of sloping land is principally caused by the removal of its protective cover of natural vegetation.
One factor is the direct effect of logging, which often turns a forest into something approximating a huge pile of kindling (wood for burning): the ground in a logged forest may remain covered with branches and treetops, left behind when the valuable trunks are carted away; a dense growth of new vegetation springs up, further increasing the forest  s fuel loads; and the trees logged and removed are of course the biggest and most fire-resistant individuals, leaving behind smaller and more flammable trees.
Where conditions are most suitable for plant growth  that is, where temperatures are relatively high and uniform and where there is an ample supply of water-one usually finds large masses of vegetation.
There is also a large mass of material, developed below ground as root tissues, but this is less apparent Careful analysis of the aboveground material reveals that it is arranged in a series of layers, the precise number of layers varying with age and the nature of the forest The arrangement of the biological mass (biomass) of the vegetation into layered forms is termed its "structure" (as opposed to its "composition", which refers to the species of organisms forming the community).
Structure is essentially the architecture of vegetation, and as in the case of some tropical forests, it can be extremely complicated.
An area of grassland vegetation with very simple structure, for example, has a very differed microclimate at the ground level from that experienced in the upper canopy.
The complexity of the microclimate is closely related to the complexity of structure in vegetation, and generally speaking, the more complex the structure of vegetation, the more speeds of animal are able to make a living there.
The climates of the higher latitudes are generally less favorable for the accumulation of large quantities of biomass; hence, the structure of vegetation is simpler and the animal diversity is consequently lower.
Broad, windswept valleys; glaciated mountains; sparse vegetation; and less moisture created a rather forbidding land mass.
The presence of mammal species that require grassland vegetation has led Arctic biologist Dale Guthrie to argue that while cold and dry, there must have been broad areas of dense vegetation to support herds of mammoth, horse, and bison.
He found that the amount of pollen recovered in these sediments is so low that the Beringian landscape during the peak of the last glaciation was more likely to have been what he termed a "polar desert," with little or only sparse vegetation, in no way was it possible that this region could have supported large herds of mammals and thus, human hunters.
The first was the discovery of a 1,000-square-kilometer preserved patch of Beringian vegetation dating to just over 17,000 years ago  the peak of the last ice age The plants were preserved under a thick ash fall from a volcanic eruption.
But this vegetation had a thin root mat with no soil formation, demonstrating that there was little long-term stability in plant cover, a finding supporting some of the arguments of Colinvaux.
A mixture of continuous but thin vegetation supporting herds of large mammals is one that seems plausible and realistic with the available data.
The duck-billed dinosaurs known as hadrosaurs are a good example of a group whose jaw joint is below the level of the tooth row, which probably helped them grind up tough, fibrous vegetation. 
In rural areas, a large part of the incoming solar energy is used in evaporating water from vegetation and soil.
In cities, where less vegetation and exposed soil exist, the majority of the Sun  s energy is absorbed by urban structures and asphalt.
